***Virginia“Citizens
of
the
Solar
Republic,
this
is
your
Sovereign.”
I stare half blind into a ﬁring squad of ﬂy-eyed cameras.
Out the viewport behind my stage, battle stations and ships
of war ﬂoat beyond the upper atmosphere of Luna.
Eight billion eyes watch me.
“On Friday evening last, the third day of the Mensis
Martius, I received a brief indicating that a large-scale
Society military operation was under way in the orbit of
Mercury. The largest in materiel and manpower since the
Battle of Mars, ﬁve long years ago.
“We are responsible for this crisis. Lured by the false
promises of an enemy plenipotentiary, we allowed our
resolve to weaken. We allowed ourselves to believe in the
better virtues of our enemy, and that peace was possible
with tyrants.
“That lie, seductive though it was, has been exposed as a
cruel machination of statecraft designed, perpetrated, and
executed by the newly appointed Dictator of the Society
remnant, Atalantia au Grimmus—daughter of the Ash Lord.
Under her spell, we compromised with the agents of
tyranny. We turned on our greatest general, the sword who
broke the chains of bondage, and demanded he accept a
peace he knew to be a lie.

“When he did not, we cried Traitor! Tyrant! Warmonger!
In fear of him, we recalled the Home Guard elements of the
White Fleet from Mercury back to Luna. We left Imperator
Aquarii at half strength, exposed, vulnerable. Now, her
ﬂeet, the ﬂeet which freed all our homes, ﬂoats in ruins.
Two hundred of your ships of war destroyed. Thousands of
your sailors killed. Millions of your brothers and sisters
marooned upon a hostile sphere. Quadrillions of your
wealth squandered. Not by virtue of enemy arms, but by
the squabbling of your Senate.
“I have heard it said in these last months, in the halls of
the New Forum, on the streets of Hyperion, on the news
channels across our Republic, that we should abandon
these sons and daughters of liberty, these Free Legions. I
have heard them called, in public, without shame, ‘the Lost
Legions.’ Written oﬀ by you, despite the courage they have
summoned, the endurance they have shown, the horrors
they have suﬀered for you. Written oﬀ because we fear to
part with our ships will invite invasion of our homeworlds.
Because we fear to once again see Society iron over our
skies. Because we fear to risk the comforts and freedoms
the men and women of the Free Legions purchased for us
with their blood…
“I will tell you what I fear. I fear time has diluted our
dream! I fear that in our comfort, we believe liberty to be
self-fulﬁlling!” I lean forward. “I fear that the meekness of
our resolve, the bickering and backbiting on which we have
so decadently glutted ourselves, will rob us of the unity of
will that moved the world forward to a fairer place, where
respect for justice and freedom has found a foothold for the
ﬁrst time in a millennium.
“I fear that in this disunity we will sink back into the
hideous epoch from which we escaped, and that the new
dark age will be crueler, more sinister, and more protracted
by the malice which we have awoken in our enemies.

“I call upon you, the People of the Republic, to stand
united. To beseech your senators to reject fear. To reject
this torpor of self-interest. To not quiver in primal
trepidation at the thought of invasion, to not let your
senators hoard your wealth for themselves and hide behind
your ships of war, but to summon the more wrathful angels
of their spirits and send forth the might of the Republic to
scourge the engines of tyranny and oppression from the
Mercurian sky and rescue our Free Legions.”
At that moment, three hundred eighty-four thousand
kilometers from my heart, in orbit one thousand kilometers
above the wayward continent of South Paciﬁca, projectiles
skinned with Sun Industries stealth polymer race into the
void at 320,000 kilometers per hour toward Mercury,
ferrying not death, but supplies, radiation medicine,
machines of war, and, if my husband is alive, a message of
hope.
You have not been abandoned. I will come for you.
Until then, endure, my love. Endure.

***Darrow
A
graveyard of Republic warships ﬂoats in the shadow of

Mercury.
Of the triumphant White Fleet that liberated Luna, Earth,
and Mars, nothing remains but twisted shards and
blackened hollows. Shattered by the might of the Ash
Armada, the broken ships spin in orbit around the planet
they liberated only months before. No longer ﬁlled with
Martian sailors and legionnaires loyal to Eo’s dream, their
cold halls are naked to vacuum and populated only by the
dead.
This is the last laugh of the Ash Lord, and the debut of
his heir.
While I burned the old warlord to death in his bed on
Venus with Apollonius and Sevro, his daughter Atalantia
stepped out from his shadow to take up his oﬀice of
Dictator. She slipped the greater part of their armada away

from Venus and used the sun’s sensor-distorting radiation
to ambush the White Fleet in orbit over Mercury.
Orion, my ﬂeet’s commander and the greatest naval
tactician in the Republic, never saw them coming. It was a
massacre, and I was three weeks too late to stop it. The
frantic Mayday calls of my friends tortured me as I crossed
the void, slipping farther and farther away from my son and
wife toward bedlam.
The White Fleet may be gone, but the Free Legions they
ferried to Mercury are not dead yet. Soon I will join them
on the surface of Mercury, but ﬁrst I have work to do.
It would be easier with Sevro. Everything violent is.
My breath rasps in my vacuum-proof suit as I traverse
the graveyard. My magnetic boots land silently along the
broken spine of a Republic dreadnought, and I peer into a
great ﬁssure in the hull to check on the progress of my
lancer. The wound in the hull is thirty decks deep. Jetsam
ﬂoats in the darkness—bits of metal, mattresses,
coﬀeepots, frozen globes of machine ﬂuid, and severed
limbs. No sign of Alexandar.
The rigid corpse of a sailor in a mechanic’s kit drifts
upward feet-ﬁrst. His legs have been congealed into a
single crooked stump from the heat of a particle blast. His
mouth is locked in a silent scream, as if to ask, “Where
were you when the enemy came? Where was the Reaper I
swore to follow?”
He was deceived by his enemies, by his allies, by himself.
While the Republic Senate fooled itself into believing
peace could be made with fascist warlords, I pretended
killing the Ash Lord would end war in our time. That I held
the key to unlocking a future where I could put down the
slingBlade and return to my child and wife to be a father
and a husband. My desperation let me believe that lie. The

Senate’s naïveté let them believe Atalantia’s. But I know
the truth now.
War is our time. Sevro thought he could escape it. I
thought I could end it. But our enemy is like the Hydra. Cut
oﬀ one head, two more sprout. They will not sue for peace.
They will not surrender. Their heart must be excised, their
will to ﬁght ground to the ﬁnest dust.
Only then will there be peace.
Lights ﬂicker in the chasm beneath my feet. Several
minutes later, a Gold in an EVA suit drifts upward to set
down with me on the hull. For fear of enemy sensors, he
puts his faceplate to mine to give his sound waves a
medium.
“Reactor is primed and ready for necromancy.”
“Well done, Alexandar.”
He nods stoically.
The young soldier is no longer the callow, insecure youth
who entered my service as a lancer four years ago. After
war, most men shrink. Some from the rending of ﬂesh.
Some from the loss of fellows. Some from the loss of
autonomy. But most in shame at discovering their own
impotence. Confronted with horror, their dreams of destiny
crumple. Only a cursed few relish the dark thrill in
discovering they are natural-born killers.
Alexandar is a killer. He has proven himself the worthy
heir to the legacy of his grandfather Lorn au Arcos. And I
have begun to wonder if he will inherit my burden. He
alone held back the tide atop the Ash Lord’s spire when
Thraxa, Sevro, and I had been knocked to our knees. It
woke the hunger in him. Now, he craves revenge on
Atalantia for the murder of our ﬂeet.
I miss that purity of purpose.
What was it that Lorn said again? “The old rage in colder
ways, for they alone decide how to spend the young.”

How many more must I spend? What is Alexandar’s life
worth? What is mine worth? As if to ﬁnd the answer, I
glance to my right. Past the hull of the drifting
dreadnought, the eastern rim of Mercury throbs like a
molten scythe.
The planet is barely larger than Luna, but this close it
seems a giant. The shadows of a Society minesweeper pass
over its face. It searches for the atomic mines Orion left in
orbit to cover our army’s frantic retreat after Atalantia’s
ambush. Few mines remain. When they are gone, only the
tropospheric shields that cover the prized continent of
Helios will forestall the wrath of the Ash Armada. The black
ships prowl beyond the graveyard, safely out of reach of
Republic ground cannons, waiting to launch an Iron Rain
against my marooned army.
When the shields fall, so will the planet.
Ten million of my brothers and sisters will face
annihilation.
That is why Atalantia has come. To crush the White Fleet.
To kill the Free Legions. To take back Mercury and with its
metals and factories, feed the Gold war machine on Venus
to prepare for a single, irresistible thrust toward the heart
of the Republic.
A tiny laser ﬂickers against the hull between Alexandar’s
feet. I put my helmet to his again. “They’re moving her,” I
say. His eyes harden. “Time to go.”
Together, we push oﬀ the hull to ﬂoat back into the
graveyard. We cross through seas of frozen corpses and
shattered ripWings to land two kilometers from the
dreadnought on the broken fuselage of a dead torchShip.
We skip along its surface until we reach a dark hangar bay.
Inside, a prototype black shuttle waits—the Necromancer,
the personal deepspace shuttle of the Ash Lord, which I
stole from his fortress and rode from Venus to Mercury.
Today I will make it earn its name.

“Anteater to Dark Tango, do you register?” The Fear
Knight’s voice is cold and intelligent as it echoes over the
speakers in the Necromancer’s ready bay. The voice
matches the man. Atlas au Raa, Atalantia’s most eﬀective
ﬁeld commander, is a far cry from his honorable brother,
Romulus. Implanted on the surface with his Zero Legion
guerrillas, Atlas sows chaos behind our lines and is
responsible for my delayed reunion with my army. They
don’t even know I am here. But neither does the enemy.
The planet was blockaded by the Ash Armada when I
arrived to Mercury three weeks ago. Fortunately, the
Necromancer’s stealth capabilities are the most advanced
in the Society armada, and the debris ﬁeld hid our
approach.
Hiding in the graveyard, I have used the decryption
software on the Necromancer to eavesdrop on the Fear
Knight’s correspondence. He reports his horrors, his
impalements, his mutilations, with the detachment of a
doctor administering medicine to a patient. Today, he
discusses a diﬀerent matter.
“Dark Tango registers, go for Anteater.” A thin Copper
voice answers for Atalantia. Some sinister blackops
administrator on the Annihilo.
“Slave Two is packaged and prepped for delivery,” Atlas
drawls. “Blood Medusa primed. Dance ﬂoor’s looking
crowded,
conﬁrm
escort
landfall
and
chaperone
overwatch.”
“Landfall conﬁrmed. Escorts: Love, Death, and Storm
delivered to chalk, minus twenty. ETA to handshake forty
minutes. Chaperone overwatch primed. Request escort
handshake conﬁrmation. Delivery active pending your go.”
“Registers. Will conﬁrm handshake. Anteater out.”
The audio clicks oﬀ.

Slave Two they call my friend. Since the day Sevro and I
hijacked Orion’s ship in our escape over Luna, the Blue has
been my conﬁdante, my stalwart ally, my saving grace
against the incredible sophistication of Gold naval Praetors.
Now she is their captive.
Slave Two. Those motherfuckers.
Before we arrived, Orion was kidnapped by the Fear
Knight from her headquarters in Mercury’s capital of
Tyche. Her personal guard slaughtered. Her ﬁngers left on
her bed to mock the Free Legions.
Unable to extract her to orbit, the Fear Knight managed
to stay a step ahead of the trackers my commanders sent in
pursuit. I listened to the bastard’s reports as he skinned
some of them alive and tortured Orion in his hidden
mountain bases. Today, he attempts to ferry her to orbit to
face Atalantia’s arcane psychotechs. It will be a neural
extraction—a science in which only my wife is Atalantia’s
equal. Orion may have resisted torture, but when Atalantia
peels through the layers of her mind, the planetary defense
architecture of the Republic will be laid bare.
I cannot permit that to happen.
“Fascist assholes,” my niece, Rhonna, mutters and
tightens her synaptic gloves in Alexandar’s direction.
“It was the baked Red peasants who gave up Orion. Not
Golds,” Alexandar says as he scalps a warhawk onto the
giant head of Thraxa au Telemanus with his razor. It
matches my own. Thraxa admires it in the reﬂection of her
notched warhammer: Wee Lass.
“The whole planet is an asshole,” Rhonna replies. “You
should think of buying a villa, Princess.”
He blows her a kiss in reply.
“Atalantia’s got some ﬂair, at least,” Colloway drawls.
Never one for wasted eﬀort, the best ﬁghter pilot in the
Republic lies on a crate of pulseArmor smoking a burner.

His slim limbs splay every direction while pale blue eyes
gaze dreamily at the curling smoke. “Remember
Dreadhammer and Lightbane? Jove, was the Ash Lord on
the nose. If he called it a nose. Probably called it
Airdevourer or Consumer of Lifegas—”
Thraxa’s Wee Lass thumps the deck, leaving two big
divots.
Everyone shuts up.
My apex killer is horny for battle. Thraxa’s face is
painted orange. Her thigh-thick neck bent forward like a
sunblood stallion at the Hippodrome starting block. While I
regret my fondness for violence out of a Red sense of guilt,
the old-blood Gold bathes in its furor. Not the glory Cassius
loved, or the noble ﬁght Alexandar chases, or the cathartic
revenge Sevro needs, but the primal essence of battle
itself. Never is Thraxa more alive than after thirty days in
the ﬁeld, crusted with saddle sores and sweat, hunting men
who have never been prey.
“I like to kill people I don’t like,” she once said when Pax
asked why she follows me. “And your daddy brings ’em like
ﬂies.”
I survey the rest of my meager force. All save Colloway
wear the warhawk Sevro made famous. Alexandar,
Colloway, and Thraxa are ready. Are Rhonna and
Tongueless? The old Obsidian sits cross-legged on the ﬂoor.
From prison guard to prisoner to an unlikely asset,
Tongueless proved his worth on the Ash Lord’s island. He is
a true patriot for the Republic, but I fear he may not be
ready for what’s coming. I fear we’re not. Without Seﬁ’s
mate, Valdir, and his Obsidians, without Sevro, Victra,
Pebble, Clown, and Holiday the company feels smaller than
it should. I am missing my best weapons, and friends.
“The enemy is in motion,” I say. “The Fear Knight will
attempt to deliver Orion to the Annihilo within the hour. If

we can rescue her, we will. If we cannot, we terminate.
They will not get that intel.” I look them each in the eye to
measure their will. “You know the plan. You each have kill
clearance. Remember why we are here. Our mission is not
to save ourselves. It is to protect the Republic, at any cost.”
They nod, but I wonder if they understand the extent to
which I expect them to honor that principle. There will be
those whose consciences will deceive them into holding
higher other principles.
I need a core I can depend upon.
“Intel suggests we will encounter at least three Olympic
Knights and Gorgon operators.” The Gorgons comprise the
Fear Knight’s blackops legion. Their ranks consist of
Shamed Golds from the Institutes, and Grays and Obsidians
with antisocial tendencies deemed corrosive to the ﬁghting
spirit of the regular legions. “No one is to engage an
Olympic unless you’re with me.”
“Will Fear be there himself?” Thraxa asks.
“His name is Atlas,” I reply. “It’s possible, but I doubt
Atalantia will give up her best ground operator before her
Rain. But she is sending Ajax.”
Alexandar and Thraxa tense.
“Do we have conﬁrmation from Screwface?” Rhonna
asks.
“Screwface is still silent,” I say. She looks down, fearing
the man is dead. It is likely, since our only mole on the
Annihilo failed to warn us of Atalantia’s ambush. “Any more
questions?” None. Refreshing change of scenery. “Good. To
your slots. Let’s get our girl back.”
Rhonna scoops up her vacuum sack, ﬁst-bumps Char and
Tongueless, and slides down the ladder to the starShell bay.
I feel a pang of guilt. I told my brother I’d keep her safe. If I
wasn’t so short-staﬀed, I could concoct a reason to keep
her on the Necromancer. But for Orion, even my niece is

worth risking, especially considering her role today may be
more important even than my own.
I grab Alexandar’s arm as the rest head out and gesture
to Thraxa’s paint stamp. I ask him to do the honors. “I
know you were close to Kalindora,” I say as he picks up the
contraption. He nods at the mention of the Love Knight, his
mother’s younger sister.
He toggles through the options on the paint stamp. “She
spent every summer with us in Elysium, always begging
Grandfather to train her. But she was best friends with
Atalantia and Anastasia. He didn’t want to give Octavia
another weapon.” Alexandar looks up. “When he took the
house to Europa, she chose her Sovereign over her family.
She is no blood of mine.” He points the paint gun at my
face. “What’ll it be? Goblin black, Valkyrie blue, Minotaur
purple, Julii jade…”
“Blood Red.”
—
In the spitTube again.
Waiting for the kill.
I hate this part.
A moving mind is always fed. At rest, mine eats itself.
How many times have I been here? Sealed in a womb of
metal, not for birth but to eat the living? The conﬁnes
aﬄict me with dread. Dread not of what lies beyond—you
can never prepare for that game—but that this will be my
eternal tomb.
Cursed to live to kill. Is this who I will always be?
Is this the life I crave? To rise before the sun? To smile at
the cock and fart jokes of killers as they grow younger and
I grow older? To sleep under tanks, in the ruins of cities,
amongst the corpses?

I no longer believe in the Vale. I am the walking dead.
Woe to those who cross my shadow.
I miss the promise of life. The smell of rain. The murmur
of waves on a shore. The sound of a full house. It is a life I
have rented, but never owned.
My wife and son are real. Not ghosts in my head. They
are out there breathing right now. Where are you, Pax? Is it
bright where you walk? Are you afraid? Has your mother
found you? Your uncle? Do you wonder if your father will
come? Do you hate him for having left? Will you ever
understand?
I have stolen pieces of him and his mother, which I hold
for ransom, promising to one day return. I know that is a
lie. Mercury will be my end.
I reach for his key, forgetting I set it in my luggage three
weeks ago. My thoughts drift to his mother. Unlike Sevro,
Virginia did not accuse me of parental malfeasance. She
knows the shearing forces at work on my heart. How can I
be a father to Pax if I abandon the millions who chose to
follow me to Luna? The responsibility to many outweighs
the responsibility to one, even though it breaks something
inside me. I feel alone knowing Sevro would not make the
sacriﬁce. Am I alone in my conviction, or have I gone mad?
My wife and I corresponded during my passage from
Venus to Mercury before I had to go dark as I approached
the planet. Now it is too dangerous. I play the last words of
her ﬁnal correspondence. Her voice echoes through my
helmet. “Trust your wife to ﬁnd our son. Trust your
Sovereign to bring the armada. Trust in me enough to stay
alive.”
I trust my wife. I do not trust my Sovereign.
She will ﬁnd Pax with Victra and Sevro. But no rescue
ﬂeet will come for my marooned army. Most have forgotten
the slingBlade of my people was not made to kill pitvipers.

It was made for hacking oﬀ limbs of trapped miners. My old
mentor, Dancer, has not forgotten. Now the leading senator
of the Vox Populi movement, he will amputate us to save
the Republic.
Atalantia expects this. If she breaks the Free Legions
here, if she feeds Mercury’s resources into her war
machine, who can match her in space and Atlas and the
Ash Legion commanders on the ground when they sail on
my mother, my brother, my sister, my son, my wife, my
friends, my home?
I will not survive Mercury, I know that. The Free Legions
will not survive Mercury. But we can make Atalantia pay so
dearly for our deaths, that we break the back of the Gold
military and secure a chance for our families, for our
Republic and its fragile dream.
I put away my wife’s face as I put away the key my son
gave me for his gravBike when I sailed for Mercury, and
stare at the red light until the enemy com crackles.
“Anteater to Dark Tango. Escort handshake conﬁrmed.
We are go in three, two…”
Fury begins upon the planet with a spark. A lone frigate
rises from a hangar hidden in the desert mountains. An
escort of six Gorgon ripWings follows, burning low across
the desert toward the Sycorax Sea where the ground
shields do not reach. In orbit above the planet, ﬁve
dreadnoughts, led by Atalantia’s Annihilo, plunge toward
the western hemisphere.
Free Legion contrails form over the sea in response.
Atalantia’s strike force of dreadnoughts bombards an
unshielded sliver of the planet. Ground cannons reply as
Republic squadrons close in on the escaping corvette.
Society ripWings descend from the Annihilo. It will be a
hell of a party over the western hemisphere.

We won’t be attending. And neither will the Olympic
Knights.
As the battle plays in the background, I follow Colloway’s
scrutiny of the Waste of Ladon. “Getting a ghost in the
eastern Ladon. That’s our bird. Hermes-class corvette.”
“Wait for it to get into the debris ﬁeld.” Sure enough, the
corvette has no interest in the scrum over the western
hemisphere. It pierces orbit over the eastern hemisphere
and sprints for the debris belt. “Char, sick ’em.”
“Boom goes the ion.”
A thousand tons of high-grade engines and weaponry
come alive in the hollow of the dead destroyer. Inertial
dampeners throb as the Necromancer explodes out of its
hiding place.
“Chin to collar.” I remind my Howlers as Colloway
weaves through the graveyard toward our quarry. They
haven’t spotted us yet in the debris. “I am the tip of the
spear. Move at my pace. Kill all hostiles. Momentum is
everything. We stop, we die.” There’s a shudder as our ship
hits debris. I see an open line between Alex and Rhonna. I
click in.
“Here’s hoping this one’s worth a wolfcloak,” Alexandar
says.
“Bah, he’ll make us die puppies,” Rhonna replies. “Stay
sharp, Princess.”
“And you, Ruster.”
I click out.
“Eyes on target,” Colloway drones. “Pricks and slits,
guard your tenders, spit pending.” The ship rumbles as its
cannons ﬁre. They’ve spotted us. It’s a race now through
the debris ﬁeld toward their waiting armada. We spin like a
top. Ordnance glancing oﬀ as the Blood Medusa returns
ﬁre. The seconds thicken. Each a test of patience. Three

weeks I have waited. Three weeks in darkness. Three
weeks in torment. Three weeks for this kill.
A magnetic charge builds behind me.
The lights go green.
Yellow.
Red.
Gravity says hello.
I launch from the spitTube.
Momentum and sunlight and spinning metal. Our quarry
barrel-rolls through the shards of a torchShip, exchanging
ﬁre with the Necromancer. Colloway sticks to its tail like a
wicked shadow.
The Howler signatures are lost in the debris. I take over
my suit’s side thrusters and lock on to the corvette,
trusting my team to follow. Five hundred meters out. Debris
careens past. Globules of frozen blood and water from ship
stores become blurs. The heartbeat monitors of my
Howlers are jackhammering as they try to keep up.
“Match me,” I say. “Match me.”
In its desperation to escape the Necromancer, the
Medusa nearly collides with the engine block of a
destroyer. It hammers its starboard thrusters and turns at a
right angle. Damn ﬁne pilot. But the men inside will be
slammed into walls if they’re not secure.
I seize the opportunity.
“Breach,” I say as I goose my gravBoots and leap
forward. The Medusa’s hull grows larger. I aim for its
centerline, directing Colloway to the breach point.
Systemic rage builds as I prepare for contact.
Atalantia thought she could steal my Imperator.
That her Fear Knight could keep my friend as a toy for
torture.
That I would simply run back to Luna and let my men die.

That she could steal my son and there would be no
consequences.
Well, here I am, you deviant bitch. Here I bloody am.
The motherfucking consequence.
“Five seconds to breach.”
The hull of the corvette rips open as Colloway sends a
miracle shot home. His warhead sprays out molecular crash
webbing.
Two seconds.
One.
Breach.
I pierce the molten hole. The black blur of the molecular
crash webbing expands like glossy, replicating fungus.
I smash into the webbing. My teeth bite through my
mouthguard. My internal organs throb. The webbing
absorbed my crash, but quickly becomes a liability, as
Alexandar warned. It seals the breach and traps me upside
down in its embrace. I can’t reach the dispersal agent on
my pulseArmor’s thigh.
As the webbing expands, I see only blackness. Masked
enemies in tattered desert gear crawl through it. A moment
before, the Gorgons were being pushed out the breach into
space. Now they are as trapped as I am. I can’t reach the
razor on my wrist. Not half a meter away, a sunburnt
Obsidian with chromed-out desert eyes points a pistol at my
head. I push the barrel away and, slowed by the webbing,
thrust my left hand into his stomach until the ﬂesh gives.
He screams as I reach under his ribcage and squeeze his
liver.
“Sound oﬀ,” I bark.
“Howler Three,” Thraxa says. “Enemy contact, releasing
counter-agent.”
“Pup Two. Landfall,” Rhonna says. “Drilling on your go.”

“Pup One? Tongueless?” Only static replies.
The crash webbing bubbles. Thraxa’s released the
counter-agent. It dissolves into a black soup that hisses
against the deck. Sheets of steam roll up. Released, my
armor clunks to the ﬂoor, my hand still inside the
screaming slaveknight. I pull out my razor and bury it in his
face.
Others move in the steam as he twitches. Six enemies, all
coming for me. I struggle to stand. Then, one by one, the
six shapes divide into twelve. A lean ﬁgure glides through
them all like a Lykos dancer.
“Pup One, reporting.”
Alexandar, fresh from bisecting a half-dozen of the Fear
Knight’s best men, slams to a knee in front of me. He wipes
the blood from his family blade and helps me to my feet.
The hole Colloway shot in the ship goes three decks
deep. Sparks from broken instruments crackle. Molecular
armor on the hull clatters as it seals the breach behind us,
locking us in.
Tongueless clicks over the com and appears from two
decks below. He boosts up and assembles the ripWing
cannon he and Rhonna harvested from the graveyard,
hooking the man-sized gun to his armor’s homemade
exoskeleton. Thraxa pulls herself from a mangled wall. Her
fox warhelm is dented. A sharp piece of metal sticks
through her lower guts and out the back of her armor. She
bends the points of the metal shard down and looks toward
the sound of enemies coming up from the lower decks and
down the main corridor.
I toss a grenade down to the lower decks. White light
ﬂares and a concussion thunders. I peek out into the main
corridor.
Masked men in tactical gear move like a hunched
organism down the hall. I dip my head back just as bullets

chew into the wall and it starts to melt.
“Tongueless, give ’em a lick.”
Tongueless levers the ripWing cannon forward on its
hydraulic arm while Thraxa braces him from behind. The
cannon is meant for ships. Not men. It screams toroids of
energy down the hall, bucking the Obsidian into Thraxa.
The frame rate of the world stutters. Behind Tongueless,
Thraxa pulls her warhammer from its magnetic holster.
Alexandar salutes me with his blade and turns to the main
corridor.
Kaleidoscopic carnage unfolds before us.
“Pup Two, go for drill,” I say to Rhonna.
“Copy.”
“Invert,” I order. All except Tongueless rotate boots to
ceiling. “One hundred meters to the Package. Push.”
We charge into the wake of Tongueless’s maelstrom.
Everything is upside down. The very air ripples with heat.
Body parts steam all over the ﬂoor. Half-melted doorways
tilt. The main corridor runs the spine of the ship. It is the
most direct route to the prison cells. But it means we will
be ﬂanked in seconds. We must punch through, or it’s all on
Rhonna.
There’s a blur at the far end of the corridor. Drones
scream for us, spitting munitions. Three of us open up with
our pulseFists. Shrapnel pings everywhere. Then the
Gorgons come to play.
Dozens of elite guerrillas ﬁre around corners, but we roll
down the ceiling like an upside-down wrecking ball made of
energy, razors, and hammers.
I ﬁre point-blank into a Gorgon’s chest, killing the
armored man behind him as well. The third bends
impossibly and squeezes three shots at my head. But I’m
already past him and ﬁring my ﬁst at an Obsidian.

A homing grenade clatters against my right thigh. I cut it
oﬀ with my razor and Alexandar kicks it. It detonates ten
meters in front of us, lifting us backward.
“Push.”
I was a killer at sixteen. A warlord by twenty. But the
younger me wasn’t this. He was still tender and new to war.
If he was the Helldiver, I am the clawDrill.
I carve through hardcore veterans of the Zero Legion as
if they were made of pastry. Still, they pour from every hall.
Existence is smoke and ﬁre. My armor pings. Internal
warnings scream. I ﬂicker my pulseShields on and oﬀ,
letting them cool so I don’t cook. The Gorgons will not die
easy, and there are too many.
We’re pinned. Flanked on three sides and can’t push
forward. Tongueless ﬁres back down the main corridor,
sweeping it clear. Something hits him from his right. A hole
smokes in his armor. He stumbles as I ﬁre at his assailant
and overlap my shields to guard him as he recovers.
“Slide.”
Alexandar seamlessly takes point and ﬁres down the hall.
Thraxa rotates to take his position. Tongueless recovers
and takes hers. Alexandar ﬂickers down the hall like a
possessed ﬂame, lashing out his razor in abject slaughter,
inverting gravity better than any man I’ve ever seen save
maybe Sevro. He tries to break through the crack ﬁreteam
barring our path.
“Hull penetration,” Rhonna intones. “Breaching.”
The Gorgon ﬁreteam perform a perfect Flavinian
armorkill on Alexandar. Three nail him with electrical
rounds before he reaches them, lowering his pulseShield.
Two deliver mass slugs that stun him senseless. He teeters
there like a drunk. Their centurion delivers the coup de
grâce. His muzzle ﬂashes. Three armor-penetrating digger
rounds scream toward Alexandar’s head.

Thraxa bolts forward and the rounds sizzle as they
ricochet oﬀ her intact pulseShield. One penetrates and rips
a hole through her left shoulder, spinning her sideways.
“Slide!”
I rotate into her place, rocketing into that damn ﬁreteam
on my gravBoots to kill the entire lot. As their bodies drip
oﬀ my armor and my friends ﬁght behind me, I look down
the smoke-ﬁlled corridor to see a red heart burning in the
gloom. A white skull joins it.
Two silhouettes bar our path to the prisons. The razors of
the Olympic Knights glimmer like teeth. The heart and skull
emblems of their oﬀice glow on their breastplates. The
Love Knight and the Death Knight.
Where is the Storm Knight?
Where is Aja’s only son?
I pray to a silent god he is not with Orion.
I look left, Gorgons. Right, Gorgons. Then behind us to
see three hundred and ﬁfty pounds of apex predator
crouched in the corridor, his black and gray leopard
warhelm lowered for the hunt.
Ajax.
“Pup Two, we’ve got the Olympics. You’re clear. On me,”
I bark.
We launch away from Ajax for Love and Death. Each side
in gravBoots and inverting gravity at will. Metal rings as
we crash together. Death and I slam into the wall, the
ceiling, the ﬂoor, smashing Gorgons still in their desert
gear. We ﬁre our pulseFists at the same time and melt each
other’s into oblivion. The force sends us reeling into the
Love Knight and Alexandar, who engage in a far more
graceful duel of blades. Alexandar turns Love to Thraxa,
who is just completing a huge swing of her hammer. Then
Death bowls into Thraxa from the side, guarding his
wingman’s back.

Behind them, Tongueless unloads his cannon on Ajax.
I’ve never seen one close so fast as Aja’s boy. He ricochets
along the ceiling toward Tongueless, and then slashes down
to slide sparking across the ﬂoor, ﬂat on his back. Because
the recoil of the cannon pulls its barrel upward, Tongueless
is slow to angle it back down.
Ajax counted on it.
He slides past Tongueless. His wrist ﬂicks. His slide stops
and he pivots to the Root Cutter stance of the Willow Way.
One of the last and most complicated forms his mother
would have taught him before my friends and I killed her.
Tongueless falls into four pieces, dead before he even
hits the ﬂoor.
“Thraxa! Hold for me!” I shout as she charges Ajax. She
is fast, impossibly strong, tough as nails. But Ajax was born
of the unholy genetic union of two apex bloodlines: Raa and
Grimmus. He is her superior in every martial way except
experience, and in that he’s gaining.
He swims past her hammer and scores two strikes to her
armor. She reels back, shocked by his speed. I rush to help,
but Alexandar is pinned back by Death and Love. They
block my way. Ajax has Thraxa on the ground. He bats her
hammer to the side.
I go Blood Red.
The razor blows shiver up my arm as I give the Death
Knight my undivided attention. He does well to last seven
seconds. The opening is small and inelegant. He meets a
crashing overhead, and tries to deﬂect it instead of absorb
the blow. He forgets the curve. My blade doesn’t turn and
my full weight jars his own blade into his armor. Before he
can pull it out, I pivot and chop Death’s head oﬀ.
I wheel around. Ajax was ﬁfteen meters down the hall
when I last saw him. He almost takes my head oﬀ as he

passes above. I deﬂect his blade at the last millisecond, but
the salvo we share would make his mother’s eyes gleam.
A very good killer can string together a set of three
moves in an onset—a one-second set of preprogrammed,
carefully cultivated strikes. Everyone has their signature.
As one of the top ﬁfty with a blade in the Core, Cassius
could do ﬁve. I once saw Lorn do eight. Ajax does eight. It
isn’t to say he’s as good as Lorn, but he is as fast; and
ﬁghting him is like being plunged into cold water.
Pure shock.
I don’t really see the moves at this point. Even Gold eyes
can’t track blades this fast. By the time he ﬂips down to bar
my way to the prison block, I’m nicked three times. But so
is he. He swishes his blade like a walking stick as the Love
Knight takes the opportunity to pair up with him and form
the Hydra ﬁghting stance. Alexandar limps to my side.
Thraxa groans from behind us as she stumbles to join us.
The two parties stare each other down in the narrow
corridor. Everyone bleeds. Come on, Rhonna. I don’t want
to pay this toll yet.
“I hoped it would be like this,” Ajax says from behind his
helmet. His voice is almost as deep as his grandfather’s.
“First you. Then I work my way down the food chain. Your
wife. Your shadow. Your Bellona.”
As much as I want to cut oﬀ Atalantia’s left and right
hands by killing her best two knights, as much as I want to
end Ajax before he becomes something I can’t handle,
dying here doesn’t end the war.
I hail Rhonna. “Pup Two, status?” I say without taking my
eyes oﬀ Ajax.
“Package is wrapped. Present deposited. Attaching cord
now. Char, anytime, please.”
“Coming in hot. Getting frisky out here. Two destroyers
and four torches inbound.”

“Popping oﬀ. Three, two, one.”
I turn from Ajax and wrap Alexandar and Thraxa in a
hug. I had hoped my presence would draw the Olympic
Knights. They all want to be the one who takes me down. I
thought I could still punch through. But with the knights
the Core has these days, you always buy insurance.
While I drew their eyes, Rhonna’s starShell landed on the
hull beyond the prison block and welded through to steal
Orion from behind their backs.
Duuuuuuuuuuuuuuum
The aft section of the ship vaporizes behind Ajax and the
Love Knight as Rhonna’s bomb detonates. A maw to space
opens and the pressure of the ship rips them out into
vacuum. We tumble with them into the debris ﬁeld.
Everything’s spinning, and all we can do is hold on to one
another. I see ﬂashes of the oncoming enemy ships.
RipWings slip through the darkness, and the Necromancer
races toward us. Just when I think it will hit us, it tips on its
nose, inverts, and inhales us into its back-facing garage.
The doors seal instantly and we ricochet like marbles.
Rhonna’s mech is locked magnetically to the ﬂoor with
arms around a bag as if it were a baby.
I grip a rung to pull myself to the viewport just as the
reactors Alexandar and I retroﬁtted activate. A dozen dead
ships glow with sudden light. Their hulks begin to crumple
from the inside, and then the reactors overload in a wash of
blinding light.
The two onrushing destroyers and torchShips ripple as
the energy waves wash across the graveyard. The corpses
of my dead starships animate into frantic contortions. I
howl with Alexandar and Thraxa as the derelict hulks
splinter apart to cover our retreat, sending hundred-meter
shards ﬂailing into the enemy ships Atalantia sent into the
graveyard.

From the other side of the graveyard, her ﬂeet watches
their kilometer-long destroyers burn as we roar for
Mercury. Colloway hails all Republic craft that the Reaper
is inbound. We need cover ﬁre.
Dripping with sweat, I jump down to the ﬂoor. Alexandar
helps pull Rhonna from her mech. Thraxa winces as she
pulls the vacuum bag free of the mech’s embrace. We set it
gently on the ﬂoor. I close my eyes before I open the seal.
Tongueless died for this. Though I knew him less well than
he deserved, he will have saved more lives today than he’ll
ever know.
I unzip the bag.
Inside is a shriveled woman in a prisoner jumpsuit. An
oxygen globe sealed over her head. I remove it. Her skin is
ashen. Her face is half gone. It looks as if it has been eaten.
But her eyes are as blue as I remember. They ﬁll with tears
as Orion reaches to touch my face with the stumps of her
ﬁngers. Through tattered lips, she sneers, “Hail Reaper.”

Of iron is the last,
In no part good and tractable as former ages past.
For when that of this wicked age once open’d was the
vein, Therein all mischief rushed forth, then faith and
truth were fain, and honest shame to hide their heads;
for whom stept stoutly in, Craft, treason, violence,
envy, pride, and wicked lust to win.
—OVID, METAMORPHOSES, 1.129–34

I

STAND AMIDST THE BLIND. Cloudy

eyes set in sun-ravaged
faces stare up at the sun, at the stone obelisks, at the
meager cubes of protein cupped in their blistered hands, at
their leader who brought them to this cursed place, and see
nothing but darkness. Their retinas have been fried by the
ordnance of our enemies.
They reach to touch my red cloak as if it will heal them.
They are Reds, Grays, Browns, Coppers, and the few
Obsidians who chose not to heed their queen’s call to
return to Earth. The legionnaires survived the Fear
Knight’s ambush in the Western Ladon, only to become
2,301 casualties that we must continue to feed, supply with
medical aid, and protect. Why would Atlas au Raa kill when
maiming pays dividends? My men look on the living
casualties with despair. Others turn their heads away, as if
looking at them might invite the same fate upon
themselves.
Drop by drop he blackens the pigment of our souls.

I bend in front of a Gray with two cauterized stumps for
legs. “You look like you got between a Telemanus and a pint
of whiskey, legionnaire.”
“Fear so, sir. I’d be back in the ﬁght, had we the gear.”
If he were a Gold or Obsidian, he’d be back in the ﬁght
by month’s end, but we can’t spend our near-extinguished
supply of prosthetics on regular infantry. Bad investment. I
once thought the greatest sin of war was violence. It isn’t.
The greatest sin is it requires good men to become
practical.
“I still see it, sir. Like a ghost tail.” The Gray rubs his
eyes, remembering the Fear Knight’s ﬁrebrand. “Bright as
day. Can’t sleep a wink.”
“You and me both. But next time you open your eyes, it’ll
be Mars you see. You’re from Hippolyte, yes?”
“Born and bred in the jade city, sir.”
“Then we’ll share oysters and cigars there soon. I
promise.” I pat him on the shoulder, murmur something
inconsequential, and move on. I stop before an old Red man
with a thin quilt about his shoulders despite the heat. Bald
but for a crescent of thin gray hair, he rolls a burner with
practiced ease. His eyes ﬂick back and forth as he realizes I
am there. He takes in a sharp breath. “Is it you?” He holds
out a hand. I take it in mine. His burner begins to shake
from nerves. I set my hand on his and motion a woman to
toss me her ring lighter. The end of the burner curls with
smoke as I give the old Red a light and toss the lighter
back.
“Looks like you’ve had a day,” I say.
He takes a deep drag. His hand steadies. “I’m Red, sir.
Been blind most of me life. I’ll get on ﬁne-like. If there’s
other mouths need feedin’, don’t worry about me. I don’t
die.”
His accent…

“What mine are you from, legionnaire?”
He grins. “Yours, as it happens.”
“Lykos?” I search his face. The crow’s feet around his
eyes are peppered with blood-ﬂy bites. “What’s your
name?”
“Don’t ya recognize me, sir?” He takes another drag from
his burner. It glows, burning hot and fast. His hand holds it
the same way it did the day Eo died, between his ring and
pinky ﬁngers. I feel the movement of the deepmine winds.
The smell of rust and swill. An echo of Eo’s laughter. It’s
been a long time.
“Dago,” I whisper. “Dago of Gamma.” Could it really be
the Helldiver I worshipped and loathed as a child? The man
who taught me the meaning of defeat? Who won thirty-two
laurels? Now here, on Mercury, in my army. Fifteen years
later. For him it looks like it’s been forty. His age makes me
feel the years.
“In the bloodydamn ﬂesh, sir.” He shivers from his wound
but manages that slash of a smile. Few teeth remain.
“What are— How long have you been—”
“Since Mars, sir. Five years.”
“And you never thought to ﬁnd me.”
“Man ain’t shit if he slags with a Helldiver that’s got his
eye on the laurel.” His laugh becomes a cough. “But you
got it now, sir. Damn well you do.”
“Sir.” Felix, a pristine Gold of my bodyguard, appears
behind me. Hailing from a minor house pledged to House
Augustus, he is a dour cynic of a man. Just past forty, he
has little love of the lowColors. But he is loyal to my wife,
and he is Martian. These days there is no more trustworthy
a breed. Two dozen more Gold bodyguards tower clean and
strong as gods at the edge of the sea of the blind. The
zenith and dregs of humanity. I feel guilt that I choose the
zenith instead of my own people for protection. Practicality,

again. “Your shuttle is ready to depart. Your…fellow
traveler is growing restless.”
I want to stay, ask a thousand things of Dago, but I can’t.
I barely have time to visit the men as it is. Time was you
could walk among the wounded and ﬁnd Sevro sprawled in
drink with them playing Karachi, poorly. His absence is felt
everywhere, not just in the ﬁeld. So many gaps for me to
ﬁll.
“Reaper…” Dago motions to me. I crouch back down. He
pulls open his thighpack. Two cannisters sit inside. One
ﬁlled with Martian soil. The other empty for his own ash.
Most Martian soldiers fear dying on an alien sphere. How
many corpses have I seen shriveled after bombardments,
their hands clutched around home soil? How many cans of
ash have I sent back to Mars to be spread in the sea? Dago
oﬀers me his home soil. It even smells of Mars, that faint
hint of iron.
“I can’t take that,” I say.
“Where’s your can then, eh?”
“Left it on Luna. This vacation was unexpected.”
He takes a handful of the soil and reaches out to me. “It’s
from Lykos.” He coughs blood into his quilt. “Yours as
much as mine. Bring it back and we’ll share a dram and
some gob, eh?” He reaches for my hand, and ﬂattens it so
he can give me half of his dust. “Mars is with you, till the
Vale.” Others hear his words and begin to thump their
chests over their hearts in the Fading Dirge, except it is an
inversion. Not the fast beating to a slow stop as in death,
but a slow pace quickening to a racing beat. I’m about to
say something to Dago, when he lights another burner and
blows the smoke in my face like old times.
“No time for words, sir. You got killin’ to do.”
I clench my ﬁst around the dirt. “Till the Vale.”

—
With Lykos soil in a secure pouch, I depart the desert,
spoiling for a ﬁght.
My shuttle bears north over the desert chalk. Behind,
Heliopolis trembles in the warped horizon. A great shield
wall, a kilometer high and ﬁfteen long, blocks the mouth of
two converging mountain ranges. House Votum crafted the
wall to shield Heliopolis from the desert storms that come
when spring cyclones descend from the Sycorax Sea in the
far north to tear south through the Waste of Ladon down
onto Heliopolis. Sparks shiver along the wall’s crest as
engineers weld guns from broken ships into place.
I lament the waste of ﬁrepower. The guns are only there
to satisfy the demands of Heliopolis’s inhabitants and the
Master Maker Glirastes, not to counter an invasion.
Heliopolis is the second-wealthiest city of Mercury, rich
with architecture, famous for its chariot races, and the
gateway to the coastal mines, but it is strategically
insigniﬁcant for my aims. To the north is where I will break
the enemy.
Heliopolis is a thorn in my boot. A hotbed of loyalist
insurrection, plots, and back-alley murders. Behind its wall,
the haughty city of limestone slouches south toward the
Bay of Sirens and then the Caliban Sea. Refugees and
soldiers boil through the dusty streets and stuﬀ the city
with a ripe summer stink. But there is another scent there
in that desert city. Not gull shit or ﬁsh markets or the
exhaust of war machines, but something else, something
creeping that clings to the root of the brain.
Fear.
Fear in the eyes of my legions as they look up to orbit
where Atalantia ﬁne-tunes her invasion plans, or to the
shadowed mountains where the Fear Knight and his
guerrillas sharpen their impaling stakes, or to the streets

ﬁlled with Mercurians, any of whom could be a spy or an
assassin.
If the death of the ﬂeet was an amputation, this siege is
death by exsanguination. Bit by bit, frontline exposure to
the perversions of the Fear Knight’s guerrillas and waiting
for the Rain deteriorates their psyches. My loyal Martians
patrol deserts and mountains and erect war machines and
battleworks, waiting to be shot by snipers or hear the bug
scream—that dread keening which signals a spider mine’s
activation. Each a better fate than being captured by the
Gorgons, the Fear Knight’s veteran impalers of Zero
Legion.
Fear robs my men of their dignity, their nobility of
purpose, their belief in our cause. Who can believe in the
intangible with a garrote around their neck? They wait to
die, slowly strangled by Atalantia and Atlas.
Some hold out hope that the Republic will send a ﬂeet.
There is a small chance, but if I hunker down and wait for
my wife to move the gears of demokracy, there will be
nothing left of us when the enemy strikes. We will die like
ﬂies, and fear will spread as the shadows of Atalantia’s ﬂeet
creep across the steps of the New Forum and their titanium
boots tread the shores of my home.
So that makes it all very simple.
I must kill it before it kills us.
—
Our ﬂight path takes us over the Waste of Ladon, the
sunbelt that chokes the center of Mercury’s main
continent, Helios. Half buried in its sands lie the remains of
the three armies the Waste has swallowed in its time. Soon
I will feed it a fourth.
Somewhere in the Waste’s axeblade central mountains,
my Howlers herd the Fear Knight toward the tripwire of my

trap—the mining city of Eleusis. Sevro should have been
leading them. Four commanders on two planets I’ve sent
against Atlas. Four have been returned impaled hole to
hole. Only Sevro and I can match the brutality of the Fear
Knight. But I have too much weight to bear alone. So I have
dispatched my best remaining small-group commander,
Thraxa, to lead, and my best sword, Alexandar in case it
comes to blows.
To the south, past Heliopolis, commandos install missile
systems, mines, and anti-infantry microwave cannons in the
tropic archipelagos and deep jungles that sprawl into the
Caliban Sea. To the northeast along the Petasos Peninsula
are the rising elevations and temperate climes of a tiara of
heavily populated cities called the Children.
The capital of the planet, and headquarters for my army,
remains Tyche. We have made the treasured seaside home
of the Votum into a fortress. Even as we pass over crop
latifundia far to its east, you can catch the glint of its
spires, and the soothing sight of its guardian mountain: the
Morning Star.
Due to Orion’s free-fall maneuver, the ﬂagship of my ﬂeet
survived Atalantia’s ambush—what the troops are calling
the Battle of Caliban, for all the ships that fell through
atmosphere into the sea—and now keeps watch over Tyche
as her systems undergo repairs with hopes of one day
returning her to the stars.
Tyche is crucial not just as a fallback citadel, but for the
gravLoop that runs south under the Hesperides Mountains
connecting Tyche to Heliopolis. Safe from bombardment, it
will be the single artery for reinforcements if the ﬁght
reaches Tyche, and it will serve as our escape route to
Heliopolis if Tyche falls. The only other path is across the
Waste of Ladon, and I’d rather have dinner with the Fear
Knight than dare cross that devourer of armies.

I busy myself with reports in the Necromancer’s
warroom as the shuttle ﬂies north. Beacons from
submerged torchShips blink on the command display as we
reach the northern extremity of the Sycorax Sea. Across
the warroom’s data display, a Silver aide drones on about
shortages of anti-radiation meds in the south. Most are
being hoarded in Tyche for the inevitable fallout.
“Soon we’ll have a surplus,” I say.
“Have you discovered a new supply, sir?”
“No.”
His eyes ﬂutter as he understands.
I feel stuﬀy. My spirit aches to be released from this
endless stream of supply logistics and construction delays.
I need fresh air.
I ﬁnd Rhonna outside the entrance to the garage bay.
Orion must be inside. My niece issues a crisp salute. Since
her part in Orion’s rescue, her popularity with the army has
increased, especially with the Blue and Orange sailors and
oﬀicers. So far, it hasn’t gone to her head. Credit her
father, Kieran, for that. “How’s she looking?” I ask.
“Quiet, sir,” Rhonna replies. “Eats alone, when she eats.
Spends more time in the shower than the mess. Like she
can’t get clean. Avoids the men when she can. Night terrors
make her dope up to sleep. Never dozes in quarters. New
spot every night. Guard detail can barely keep tabs on her.”
“Atlas did take her from her quarters,” I say. “I wouldn’t
be able to use a bed either. Have you told anyone about
your orders?”
“No, sir. I know you told Imperator Harnassus she passed
her psych evaluation. Quiet’s the game.”
“Good. Good. Has she spotted you?”
“Did you spot me yesterday when you were listening to
Aunt V’s hologram instead of sleeping like the medici
ordered, sir?”

I frown. “Window?”
“Topiaries.”
I rub my eyes. “Shit. I’m getting old.”
“Or I’m getting quieter.”
I suppose it was only a matter of time before everyone
started catching up. I consider how young she looks, and
how old I must be in her eyes. “Did you know I’m older
than my father was when he died? Still think of him as an
old man.” I chuckle. “He’d be closer to your age, I reckon.”
She glances down the corridor and chews her lip.
“Permission to speak like we’re blood, sir.”
“Don’t like me discussing mortality?” She waits for my
answer. “Granted.”
“I didn’t get you until we came back here. You were dead
to us till I was near on nine. Everyone ran their gobs about
you in Tinos. But I didn’t get it. I didn’t get that.” She
points at the slingBlade asleep like a pale snake around my
arm. “You were just my uncle. Then we came down with
Orion. And I could see it. Every bloody soul was waiting to
give Mercury their carbon. Then they saw you jump out this
ship.” The hairs on her forearms stand on end at the
memory. “You ain’t old. You just need to let others haul
their freight. Even the Reaper needs sleep, sir. Especially if
he’s gonna get us all home.”
She still believes I can work miracles. But my exhaustion
isn’t made by these last days. A life of war is catching up
with me. She doesn’t know the weight I carry. How much I
relied on Sevro to help carry it. How damaged our legions
really are. How tactically sophisticated even the most basic
Gray infantry centurion of the enemy is compared with
ours, not to mention their Golds. We just don’t have the
same distribution of brainpower. Or ﬁrepower.
“Thank you for the concern, lancer. But I’d caution you
against spying on me again.” I move toward the door.

“Sir.”
I turn, growing annoyed. She stands at attention again.
“When the Rain falls, I request permission to ride with
my cohort.”
“No. I need you at my side.”
“Because it’s safer there?” She watches me with the
same hard scrutiny my mother wields. Aside from Victra,
Lykos women are the most stubborn breed. “You need your
men to do their jobs. That’s why you let Alexandar tail you
onto the Medusa. It’s why you sent him oﬀ with Thraxa. To
do his job. You can’t protect us from this.”
“You’re not Alexandar.”
“Yet you put me in a starShell and sent me at the
Medusa.” She leans forward. “And now you feel guilt for
that. For letting me come to Mercury at all.”
She hits the mark. She knows the promise I made her
father.
“Sir, at your side I’m a one-point-two-meter, fortykilogram liability with quiet feet and a dirty gob. In a
starShell, I’m decent. In a Drachenjäger, I’m a full-metal
god.” Blood ﬂushes her cheeks. “I know you’re worried
about my pa. But it was my choice to join you when Sevro
bailed. My choice to be here. My choice to ﬁght.” Her voice
hardens. “And if they get through us, it’ll be iron over my
pa’s head, over Dio’s head, my brothers’ and sisters’ heads.
So fuck your guilt. And let me do my job.”
I didn’t have a choice but to use her to rescue Orion. I
have a choice now.
“My pulseFist’s recoil stabilizer is still touchy,” I say.
“See if you can calibrate it, lancer.” I couldn’t protect my
son. So as long as I have the power to protect my brother’s
daughter, I will. When the Rain comes, she’ll be sent to
Heliopolis to wait out the storm.

—
I leave Rhonna steaming mad to ﬁnd Orion sitting alone in
the back of the cargo hold. Always stout, now stick-thin, the
Blue woman is darker than the gloom outside. Her bare
feet dangle out the open door.
Orion hears me enter and looks back. Her face is mottled
with the resFlesh that has replaced the chunks Atlas took
out. New metal ﬁngers extend from her knuckles.
“Trouble?” she asks.
“Pushy relations.”
Without a smile, she turns back to watch the polar sky.
Beyond the atmosphere of the planet, Atalantia’s warships
rove, waiting for us to just nip our heads outside the great
shield chains so they can drop mass drivers down and make
craters of us.
“Cold back here,” I say over the whistling wind. Our ship
passes over the edge of an ice shelf. “Why don’t you head
to mess? Colloway says it’s bad to sync on an empty
stomach.”
“I like the cold,” she replies distantly. “And my
autonomy.”
“Fair enough.” I settle in beside her to dangle my legs. I
didn’t lie to Harnassus and my high command. She did pass
her ﬁrst psych evaluation, but I have the suspicion
Colloway helped her cheat. For ﬁve days after her rescue,
she spoke only in brittle, pixelated sentences, preferring
the company of her protégé, Colloway, to any other. Then
she asked to return to duty. I thought it would bring her
back to herself. It hasn’t. Her duties may be completed on
schedule, but she remains the same as all who survive the
Fear Knight…altered.
I squint at mathematical notations written in the frost on
the ship’s hull.

“Reminds me of home when they would turn oﬀ the
heating,” Orion murmurs. “They liked to ﬁnd new reasons
to do that. First calculus I learned was on hull-frost.
Fingers so numb I could barely hold the stylus.”
“Calculus. Poor lass. I only needed algebra,” I say, trying
to draw her out of her daze. I wish I could say it was solely
for her beneﬁt. “Do it in marker on the side of the clawDrill
cockpit with one hand.” I make a motion of digging with the
other. “Can’t stop the drill, you see. Stop too long and
you’re jammed.”
“You would need calculus to properly operate a clawDrill
apparatus,” she replies.
“Yeah, well, Pa said the rest is all instinct. Disagree,
maybe you and I can have a duel back on Mars. There’ll be
new bunkers that need excavating.”
She ignores the challenge and watches a herd of pale
seahorses crossing an archipelago of ice. They shake their
manes and angle their ﬁns as their stunted legs launch
them oﬀ the ice back into the water. “Fathers are
important,” she says. “My kind think the notion perverse.”
She goes to chew her ﬁngernails only to bite the metal of
her prosthetics. She looks at the digits as if seeing them for
the ﬁrst time. “Still, they call me Mother, don’t they?”
“That’s the civil half of the name.”
She shrugs. “Children are disgusting. I would never have
them. I cannot abide selﬁshness.”
There is no way, Gold or Red, to understand the
empathetic connection minds make in the synaptic drift.
Orion’s communication with her pilots in battle is
nonverbal. Instead it is formed of a web where the electric
currents in her brain bond and interact with those of the
others. To have one side cut short is the cruelest of
amputations. The ghosts of the dead linger in her synapses.

I wonder if she thinks of the sailors she lost in the
ambush. If she felt like a mother when she saw the Annihilo
break the Dream of Eo in half. If it is selﬁshness she cannot
stand in children or if it is the fear of losing them.
“The Senate recalled too many ships. Even if you saw
Atalantia coming, she would have held the orbit. The
Senate lost that battle, not you.”
Her head snaps in my direction. “Harnassus lost that
battle when he didn’t spit on the Senate’s orders, and sent
half my ﬂeet to Luna. Your wife lost the battle, when she
did not override the Senate.”
“She will not break the New Compact—”
“And you think that a quality? Her precious morality for
the price of my sailors? Or is it fear of becoming her
father?” She shakes her head. “Harnassus and Virginia
bear the guilt. I feel none.”
“I do. Often. For the Sons on the Rim. For the Dockyards
of Ganymede.”
“Then you squander neurons.”
Her hard shell has always existed. But not to this
extreme. It is easy to forget Orion’s roots. From an
unsanctioned birth, then childhood, in the dim frost of
Phobos’s Hive city, destined to pilot garbage haulers and
take a government stipend till death, to the commander of
the most successful ﬂeet since Silenius’s Iron Armada.
Amongst my own people, I had a home. Orion was never
accepted by hers, until she climbed over their backs to the
top, and looked down to see them all pretending to have
lifted her up. Of all the soldiers left in my army, I trust her
the most, because she alone has never let me down. Any
other astral commander, including me, would have lost the
Morning Star, the surviving ships, and the army itself.
“Rail against my wife all you like, she’s what keeps the
Republic together,” I reply. “And Harnassus kept this army

together when I wasn’t here, and you were captured.”
“Harnassus. Please. Oranges are pedantic apes with
opposable thumbs used for two ventures: to spin wrenches
and climb union ladders. He did what is in his nature.” She
runs her hands along her head as if feeling for cracks in the
skull.
“And what is your nature?”
“The same as yours. To kill the enemy.” As her eyes go
distant, her voice softens. “Can you think in space?”
“Depends on who you ask.”
“I can’t think on the ground. Too much weight. Too many
disgusting people and their refuse.” She wipes her calculus
oﬀ the hull. “I know you think Atlas broke me.”
“If I thought you were broken, you’d be in the sick bay. I
think you’re dented.”
She likes that. “He is an eﬀective operator, to be certain.
He presented me with a hideous desert rodent and said my
pain would last only as long as the rat ate. It gnawed the
ﬂesh oﬀ my calves, nose, and cheeks before it split its
stomach and died. It was eﬀective. It horriﬁed. It
degraded.”
She looks over at me. “Don’t you see?”
I frown and shake my head.
“Together you and I…we’ve broken worlds. Who can do
what we have done? What our men have done? Yet we put
ourselves at the mercy of rats. We free them. Protect them.
Die for them. And when we turn our backs, they unveil
their little teeth and gnaw at us one bite at a time. And
when we turn to face them, they cheer, and we pretend
their gnawing hasn’t made us weaker. Rats cannot even
govern their own appetite. How can they govern
themselves?”
“You sound like one of them,” I say so low it’s almost a
growl.

“Is a doctor wrong when he tells you what you don’t want
to hear? We don’t have a monopoly on truth just because
our aims are pretty, young man. If I were wrong, this planet
would embrace us. Instead it gnaws at us. If I were wrong,
the Republic’s ﬂeet would already be here.” She looks to
the sky. “Where is it, Darrow? Where is our demokracy?”
My hand drifts to the holodrop in my pocket. The small
teardrop of metal holds the face of my wife. I ache to watch
her messages again, to drink in her last words to me, her
face, the lines that web around her eyes, to somehow evoke
the warmth of her skin and breath. But I fear to do so all
the same. Sixty-ﬁve million kilometers of space separate
Luna and Mercury at current orbit. An even wider gulf
divides me from her. I do not doubt her. But I doubt she will
do what must be done. Orion hit the truth of it. She fears
too much to see her father and brother in the mirror to
dissolve the Senate. I know she thinks her virtue is
contagious. But I fear it merely emboldens the covetous
nature in mortals of weaker substance.
“My wife promised that she would wrangle the senators,”
I say without conviction. “That she would bring the
armada.”
“Then why did you design Operations Voyager Cloak and
Tartarus? Why not just wait for salvation?”
I take my hand oﬀ the holodrop. “Because hope is an
opiate, not a plan.”
“Agreed. So how much longer can you hope, absent any
evidence, that the people of the Republic are good? That
they will ﬁnally start pulling their own weight?”
When I do not answer, she stands, putting a hand on my
shoulder in empathy. As Sevro became softer, I found
solace in Orion. We have always been alike, particularly in
our growing suspicions of demokracy. But it was always
said in a grumble over a bottle of whiskey. Never in a
screed like this. Her doubt troubles me, and I don’t know

how to ease it when the same doubts echo unspoken inside
me.
“How long will it take to sync your Blues?” I ask.
“About ninety minutes for full ﬁdelity.”
“I’ll handle Harnassus today.” Her lips curl at his name.
“You know his opinions on Tartarus. Last thing I need is you
two clawing each other’s eyes out. You just sync up and get
back to quarters. You need rest.” She walks away like a
petulant child. I stand. “Imperator. Your commanding
oﬀicer is speaking.”
She stops and turns. “According to our Senate, you’re not
my commanding oﬀicer. You’re a traitor.”
There’s only one thing to do with doubt. Stomp on it.
“Imperator, I don’t need your opinions. I don’t care about
your feelings. I don’t care if you doubt the Republic. I don’t
care if you hate its people. For this army, this is an
extinction event. My only care is that my best weapon is
sharp before zero hour. Will you be sharp, Imperator?”
She snaps to attention. “As a rat’s teeth, sir.”

***LysanderA
famed old behemoth floats above the mottled planet. It
waits to swallow the corvette that ferried us from Io to
Mercury.
At just under four kilometers in length, the behemoth is
shaped like an atavistic spear. Her battered hull is sable,
like the seashells I used to collect with my father on the
shores of Luna’s Sea of Serenity. Unlike those glossy shells,
she reﬂects no light.
Her name is Annihilo.
I annihilate.
I hope that annihilation is not the total extent of
Atalantia’s designs.
“Big beast,” the man beside me says as if discussing the
weather. “That killed Rhea?” I turn, wishing he were
Cassius, but Cassius died trying to prevent this very
moment.
The Rim has come to make peace with the proﬂigate
Core.

Instead of my old friend, mentor, and guardian, it is the
eldest son of Romulus au Raa who stands beside me on the
bridge of the Ionian corvette. Of all the Golds of the Rim,
only Diomedes was deemed ﬁt to serve as ambassador for
this dire mission. I believe the choice well made. The man
has gravitas. He wears a look of wary bemusement. His
dark gold hair is streaked with black and tamed by a knot.
His scarred, blunt face is not handsome according to
Palatine tastes, but like his slumped shoulders and brutish
hands, it belies a quiet, terrible potential.
From the brief ﬂicker of swordsmanship he demonstrated
on Io, and the reverence paid to his skills by his fellows, I
judge Diomedes to be the only Rim Knight equal to Cassius
in the ways of the blade. Yet he alone refused to ﬁght my
friend—even at cost to his own family.
For that, Diomedes will always have my respect.
“The Annihilo was the ﬂagship of the armada that burned
Rhea. Others contributed,” I reply.
“It is hideous. Of course, it does come from Venus.”
“My godfather never cared much about how something
looked. Only if it worked.” He chuckles at that.
When ﬁrst I saw Diomedes, I thought he was yet another
brute, like so many of the Core duelists with more
testosterone than brain. I was wrong. The man is an
enigma somewhere between monk and barroom brawler.
He shares meals with his Grays and Obsidians. He is never
the ﬁrst to speak or last to laugh. When he tells jokes, they
usually come as blunt, elliptical rejoinders. He can be
endearing, unnerving, and brutal.
Yet when news reached us that Darrow, Sevro, and
Apollonius au Valii-Rath immolated my godfather in his
sickbed, Diomedes did not rejoice as did his sister and
many of his compatriots. Instead he came to oﬀer his
respects.

They were a peculiar comfort.
I loved my godfather, despite his deeds. Whether that is
evidence of a personal failing or a moral imperative to love
those who were kind to one as a child, I may never know.
“At the Battle of Ceres, the Annihilo was broken nearly in
half by Darrow’s ﬂagship,” I continue. “Still she managed
to destroy two new Republic destroyers and hold oﬀ his
ﬂeet until Carthii reinforcements arrived. She is durable.”
He leans forward gamely. “It would be interesting to
board her.”
“How would you do it?”
His eyes trace her instruments of death. “Quickly.”
There’s that Moonie dry wit. I have grown fond of the
man and his taciturn demeanor, but worry his blunt form of
honesty will prove a poor ﬁt for the games of the Core. As
Grandmother said: “A courtier without a Dancing Mask is
as vulnerable as a Praetor without armor.” Still, Atalantia
would be unwise to underestimate the razormaster of the
Rim. Not two months ago, he watched his father walk to his
own death as a matter of honor. I would not cross him
lightly.
“When Atalantia asks how long the journey took, you will
tell her three months,” Diomedes says.
“You don’t want her to know how fast your ships are.”
“Strength always fears speed.” His heavy eyes search
mine. “You profess a desire to make Gold whole. We are not
fools. We know Atalantia will turn on us when she has the
upper hand. Helios and the council believe you may be able
to convince her against…rash action.”
“And what does Dido think?” He ignores that. “I will do
all in my power. You have my word.”
“My mother believes this is a ploy for you to seize the
throne. But remember: we will have no part in
kingmaking.”

“You have my word on that as well.”
I mean it, and I think Diomedes believes me.
Damn my inheritance. All that matters is that we still the
turmoil that wracks the worlds. Gold remains the only
viable peacemaker. But not while Gold is itself divided. To
defeat Darrow, we must heal the wounds between the Rim
and the Core. For that, I sacriﬁced Cassius. For that, I
would sacriﬁce myself. But would Atalantia sacriﬁce herself
for anything?
I doubt it.
“His word,” a low voice drawls. His sister Seraphina joins
us from the main compartment. “We’ve seen how mercurial
that is ﬁrsthand. Salve, Accipiter Vega.”
She leans past me to pat the pilot’s shoulder with
aﬀection. Our pilot, Vega, is a child with ancient eyes. On
the Rim, they believe the best pilots start at age ten and
end at twenty. Vega is not yet twelve years standard.
My own pilot, Pytha, is superstitious of Rim Blues and
has not yet lost her terror of the Moonies after their
Krypteia secret police tortured her. Understandable. So for
the duration of the journey, she has secluded herself in my
quarters watching ﬁfty-year-old Venusian holoﬁlms and
eating meditation mushrooms gifted to her by Diomedes’s
grandmother, Gaia.
The sound of Gaia’s piano echoes in my memory. Perhaps
Atalantia will know if I played it as a child, and how I could
have forgotten. There are chasms inside that I cannot
explore. Hidden truths, or lies, or evils my brain has hidden
in shadow to protect myself. What lies beneath the shadow?
If it is a construct of my grandmother’s, Atalantia will know.
“We should trust him as little as we trust that Core slut,”
Seraphina says to her brother. Her eyes dress me down.
“Less, even. At least she has soldier’s blood, not a
politician’s.”

“And soldiers are more noble by default?” I ask.
She blinks and turns to Diomedes. “If I have to share air
with this Corespawn any longer, I’ll castrate him.” She
looks between my legs and raises a notched eyebrow. “If
anatomically possible.”
At the end of our journey together, I ﬁnd myself
unusually embarrassed by my initial attraction to the
vicious woman. Upon close-quarters inspection, I have
discovered she has few of the virtues I respect—patience,
prudence, grace, humility, compassion. What virtues she
does have—honesty, loyalty, courage—are contorted by her
natural disposition: diabolical hunger.
But my attraction still persists. Credit ten years’
separation from my own species, I suppose. Either that or
I’ve discovered a latent predisposition for wild things, and
shall be doomed for life by my taste in precocious women.
“If you can’t share air, hold your breath,” Diomedes
mutters to his sister.
“We should not be here,” she presses. “We’re not
ambassadors. I should be with the forward commandos and
you at Lux’s side leading the legions. Not glad-handing
sybarites.”
Diomedes kneads the joints of his jaw.
“We are what our leaders ask us to be,” he replies.
“And if they told you to clean latrines again?”
“Then I would be beloved by all Browns. And pray the
mess cooks don’t serve Venusian food too often for supper.”
She snorts at that.
“This isn’t a dishonor, Sera. I was chosen by the council
to represent the Rim. You were chosen by a consul. It is an
honor. It is the honor.”
“Even though you don’t believe in this war?” Her
eyebrows crawl upward. “Well, don’t worry, brother. I doubt
you’ll see much of it. Damn Lux’s honor. Sending Raa when

a Copper would have suﬀiced. We’re going to be hostages,
even if this Core tramp decides she wants to ally with us
before she sticks a razor in our backs.”
“I rather think it would be poison,” Diomedes replies.
Seraphina pats her brother’s cheek. “Either way, you’ll
be a ﬁne hostage. So good at following orders.”
She stalks back to join the escort soldiers.
“The Core isn’t like the Rim,” I say after she has gone,
choosing my words carefully. Diomedes despises only one
thing more than gossip. “Blood bubbles from spilled wine.”
“You worry that Seraphina will provoke someone into a
duel.”
“Everyone, actually.”
“She is violent, not stupid. She demurs to me.”
“And if Dido gave her directives that contradict your
own?”
He ignores my comment, but I know it strikes home.
While Diomedes represents the Moon Council, his sister
has only one master: her mother. And Dido is anything but
conciliatory to the gens Grimmus. After all, along with the
Jackal of Mars, they organized the aﬀair at Darrow’s ﬁrst
Triumph, where Dido’s eldest daughter and her father-inlaw were butchered.
Dido has not forgotten, nor has Diomedes.
He stares at the Annihilo. “My father once said anyone
interesting is at war with themselves, and can thus be
described in just two words. What are Atalantia’s?”
“Velvet buzzsaw.” He says nothing in reply. “Atalantia has
a savage brain and immensely contagious charisma. She is
hindered by neither guilt nor doubt. She knows no half
measures. She is a social strategist, a herpetologist, a
sculptor, a laughing, masterful woman in love with the
sound of her own voice, and convinced that beauty is the

pinnacle of existence—in any form.” I do not speak of her
vices. It would be improper for him to ask, so he does not.
He lets the silence stretch and then looks over at me. “Do
you know what I learned from my father’s death?”
I wait for him to tell me.
“Not to ramble.”
Exposed to the harsh elements of Io, Romulus wasted
precious air on his last proclamations, and fell short of
reaching the tomb of his ancestor, Akari.
I swallow my reply.
Lost in thought, Diomedes looks back at Atalantia’s ship.
After a time of consideration, he speaks. “You are the legal
heir of House Lune, and stand to inherit whatever remains
of its possessions.” He means ships, legions, oaths that
have no doubt passed to House Grimmus. Any inheritance I
am due will cost Atalantia dearly. “Will she see you as ally
or rival?”
I do not know.
I embarked upon this course believing I could reason
with my godfather. He was always rational, but now he is
dead. Atalantia as Dictator is far more unpredictable.
Ten years changed me. Did it change her?
Though Atalantia detested children on general principle,
she made an exception for her nephew, Ajax, and for me,
the son of her best friend and heir of her mentor. I was
Atalantia’s favorite because, unlike Ajax, I won the aﬀection
of the only midColor Atalantia has ever respected—
Glirastes of Heliopolis. A hybrid architect-physicist,
Glirastes was the greatest Master Maker in centuries, and
the tastemaker of an age. And because Grandmother chose
me to be the sole inheritor of the Mind’s Eye, the secrets to
which Atalantia always coveted.
Despite that aﬀection, nothing from my childhood with
Atalantia—not our nights at the Hyperion Opera, not our

hand-in-hand critiques of Violet exhibitions, nor even our
mutual aﬀection for equestrian husbandry—could disabuse
me of the suspicion that I was little more than a doll for her
to dress up and parade around.
I’m ashamed to admit I let her. With my parents dead and
Aja often away, I found myself willing to go to great lengths
for a kind word.
And Atalantia gave so many, Grandmother so few.
Yet one of Octavia’s axioms haunts me: “Fear those who
seek your company for their own vanity. As soon as you
eclipse them in the mirror, it won’t be the mirror they
break.”
I have no designs for rule. But convincing Atalantia of
that is another matter entirely.
“I cannot say how she will react,” I reply at last. “But so
long as there is no scar on my face, I cannot inherit
anything.” I chew the inside of my cheek. “Are you
frightened?”
“To meet Atalantia? Conditionally.” He pauses. “To see
my uncle again? Certainly.”
I am a little worried to meet the Fear Knight as well.

***Darrow 
Mercury is a
temperamental planet of moods and stark climate zones.
Deeming it easier to change a planet than human nature,
Gold worldmakers employed mass-drivers on Mercury to
alter her rotational period to match Earth’s. Such heavyhanded terraforming is sometimes necessary, but it leaves
visible seams.
At the seam where the Sycorax Sea meets the polar ice,
steam seeps from the wide mouth Harnassus’s blacksmiths
cut into the façade of a glacier. Landing lights invite us into
the glacier where a makeshift industrial world bustles
around an excavation site. As we land, the sprawling
barracks and engineering garages and mess halls on the
ﬂoor look like toy blocks compared to the mass of metal
being dug out of the ice. The ancient engine looks like an
upside-down turtle shell pierced with a trident.
Imperator Cadus Harnassus, the Terran hero of Old
Tokyo, meets me on the sand-strewn tarmac. He is a geode
WING

TO

ITS

TRAUMATIC

REBIRTH,

of a man. Slump-shouldered, slow-walking, with umber skin
and a bulbous drinker’s nose set in a face that looks
increasingly like an angry puppy’s the deeper he plunges
into his ﬁfties—all of which belies the intricate intelligence
of a starShell engineer who became the hero of his caste.
For eight years, he’s kept his cherished Terran Second
Legion Blacksmiths intact. In this war Gold may hold a
monopoly on supersoldiers and military doctrine, but we
have one on creativity. Wary as I am to admit it, much of
that is thanks to Harnassus.
I’ve had brilliant commanders, stupid commanders, and
bloody commanders, but ﬁnding a steady commander is as
rare as an honest man in a Silver guildhouse. If only this
steady commander didn’t have ambitions of one day sitting
in my wife’s chair.
Formally speaking, he is the ArchImperator of this army,
and I am an outlaw.
It was Harnassus whom the Senate formerly anointed my
successor when I went rogue. Orion, they knew, was far too
loyal to me. And it was Harnassus who, either for political
gain or out of pedantic obedience to the law, overruled
Orion and sent nearly half the ﬂeet back to Luna, setting
the stage for Atalantia’s attack on the remnant. Gone are
the days when he could sit at any table and chew the fat
with the infantry. The men, like Orion, blame him for this.
But in the end it wasn’t Harnassus who chose to invade
Mercury. That’s on me.
“Look at that. The Myth and his puppy.” Harnassus’s
Orange eyes dance over Rhonna and me as if he knows a
private joke. “Have you come to join me in my northern
banishment?”
“You’re behind schedule, Imperator,” I say with a salute.
He returns a half-hearted one and spits out a stream of
tobacco juice. It freezes in his tangled beard.

“Then the schedule’s wrong.” He scratches his head and
pulls out a hair. Not that he can spare many. “My lads are
worked to the bone for this damn insanity you and the
airhead cooked up.”
I jerk my head to the engineers that disembark from the
steaming shuttles. “That’s why I brought more. The
Seventeenth is all yours. Their storm engine in the Waste is
primed and ready. Orion has had four of hers in the Sycorax
burning two klicks deep for a week.”
He frowns. “There’s ﬁve others? You might have told
me.”
“There are six others. Operational security is
paramount.”
“Fancy way of saying you don’t trust me.”
“I trusted you with this one, didn’t I?”
“So much you came yourself. Seven all told then.” His
mind goes to work. “How hot’s that witch’s cauldron? Forty,
forty-one?”
“Forty-three Celsius,” Orion says as she comes oﬀ the
Pale behind me. Her six storm pilots ﬂank her. I hide my
irritation. She was supposed to wait. Harnassus eyes her.
Privately, he expressed his doubts of her mental readiness
for duty. Publicly, he salutes his equal rank.
“I was rounding,” he says.
“Well, your kind can aﬀord to round. Not you who does
the dying.”
“Surprised to see you in the ﬁeld, Imperator Aquarii.”
Harnassus wheels those slumped shoulders toward me.
“Why is she here?”
“I’ll tell you in the brieﬁng.”
“Right. Operational security. Well, their meteorologists
will have caught that spike, Aquarii. Might be evil little
brainwashed warlocks, but they ain’t fools like the two of

you. Flying in the same shuttle. Shit. What if the Fear
Knight got both of you?”
“Then your dreams would come true,” Orion says. “And
you’d lead the army. My engines are along the volcanic
range. Your…warlocks will think it’s hydrothermal vents.
They’ll never suspect it could creep to ﬁfty Celsius.”
“Then what the hell do you need this one for?”
“Total control,” Orion says.
“Total control?” Harnassus’s suspicions of being kept in
the dark are conﬁrmed. He glowers back at the engine.
“Didn’t you two read the stories? Pandora doesn’t like it
when you play with her box.”
Orion regards him with as much respect as Sevro would
a particularly small turd. “Pandora was a ﬁction written by
men to blame the miseries of the world on women. I am not
a ﬁction. So, can we see the merchandise? Or do you want
to stand here bickering semantics and freezing our dicks
oﬀ as I pretend a hundred thousand of my sailors didn’t die
for your political wet dreams?”
The two unmovable objects glare at each other.
“You two done?” I ask. “Yeah, you’re done. I want that
machine in the air. Now.”
—
The ice is the color of cold lips as the men and women of
the famed Second swarm over the metal hull of an
unearthed colossus. Imprisoned for centuries in the ice, the
curvature of the machine’s top hull, nearly a kilometer in
diameter, is warped and rife with ﬁssures. Harnassus roves
the perimeter of the dig site bellowing gearslang. He’s
been in a state of agitation since Orion and her Blues
entered the machine more than two hours ago.

The Master Maker Glirastes stands wrapped in the fur of
a polar bear. Lean, bald, and as cruel looking as a vulture,
the most famous artiﬁcer in the Society wrinkles his nose
and sniﬀs a line of demon dust from a dispenser. Orange
like Harnassus, he is of an entirely diﬀerent class. One that
rubbed shoulders with Gold autarchs and sculpted libraries
and arcane devices for their pleasure from Mercury to
Luna. He is not of the Rising, though his cooperation was
vital for my Rain on the planet.
“You’ve worked a miracle,” I say to him.
“A miracle he says.” The Master Maker snorts in derision
and to claim the last of the narcotics from the right nostril
of his hooked nose. “When you took this planet, you said in
one year’s time I would weep in joy at the fruits a single
year of liberty would bring. Peer upon this visage, young
warlord, is it one in thrall to joy?”
“Year’s not up yet,” I say.
“These machines are of a primordial power not in concert
with human aﬀairs,” he says, turning to me with that
withering, pinched gaze. “Considering my labors, I trust
your promise holds.” Before my legions took the planet, I
made a promise to Glirastes to avoid bombardment of
population centers. Because of that promise, hundreds of
thousands of my men died in our Rain, but millions of
civilians were kept from the crossﬁre. That I honored the
promise despite its dire cost is the only reason he trusts me
enough to help restart the arcane tech within the engines.
That and his fear of what Atalantia will do to collaborators,
especially ones as famous as Glirastes the Master Maker of
Mercury.
The promise I made him then has extended to the Storm
Gods.
“It holds,” I say. “We won’t exceed primary horizon.”

“I will not be party to genocide. You know what will
happen if…”
“Believe it or not, Mercury is as valuable to my cause as
its people are to your sterling heart.” He senses my
sarcasm and scowls.
“Gods know why Octavia kept these infernal beasts
enchained,” he says, turning back to the engine with a gaze
that is equal parts adoration, envy, and fear. “Even the
Votum did not know what lay beneath the surface of their
planet. Even I did not know.”
I hope that means Atalantia does not know.
“Why does a Gold do anything?” I ask him. “For control.”
The Storm Gods are leftover weather-shapers from the
terraforming of the planet. They worked in lockstep with
the Lovelock engines to make Mercury habitable. It took
my wife four years and the labor of two hundred Greens to
crack Octavia’s Crescent Vault in the Citadel. The secret
treasures we found inside were worth a ﬂeet of starships.
I’m betting ten million lives that Octavia was too paranoid
to let anyone but blood in on her family secrets.
Glirastes stares at the Storm God as if waiting for its
colossal mass to whisper a secret to him, then he crosses
his arms and recedes into the depths of his mental
labyrinth. The Maker is a temperamental genius, but he
cares about the people of this planet. Thank the Vale for
that.
At the wail of a siren, the Blacksmiths begin evacuation
of the pit via gravLifts. Above, the last of the clawDrills
drift through the air, ferried by heavy-duty cargo haulers
bound south, to be stored at our supply depot in Heliopolis.
Orion and her Blues are the last to depart the engine. The
engineers watch territorially as they ﬂoat back to me on a
gravSled. Glirastes sips the coﬀee his slave brings.

“Hardware is installed and operational,” Orion says. “So
much for Harnassus’s whinging. Worked to the bone
indeed. His Blacksmiths did ﬁne work, for greasers.”
“They’re doped out of their minds,” Glirastes adds.
He’s right. If I were younger, I’d think valiant rage or
purpose kept them steady. But I’m not the only one light on
sleep. My army is a band of marionettes held up by strings
called nazopran, dolomine, and zoladone.
“Will it work?” I ask Glirastes.
“I ran ﬁve million simulations, only two million of which
ended in the engines imploding, killing all aboard,”
Glirastes says. “So in theory, yes.”
“Comforting,” I mutter.
Harnassus trudges over, trying to catch our conversation.
“Will you do the honors, Imperator?” I ask.
“This is your monster. You wake it up.” He tosses the
control pad to me.
Annoyed, I activate the ﬂight protocol. Harnassus doesn’t
even watch to see the gravity engines ﬂare underneath the
ancient machine. For a dreadful moment, nothing happens.
I stare down. Rise, you bastard. Rise.
“I told you it was a mistake including Harnassus,” Orion
whispers. “He thought this was the only engine. He
sabotaged it.”
“He’s an ass, not a traitor,” I say.
Then the Storm God lets loose a terrible groan as it feels
the force of Sun Industries gravity engines urging it to
waken from its slumber. Except for Harnassus, all the aides
and commanders beside me step back.
With a shriek of metal, the machine begins to rise,
climbing up and up until it hangs a hundred meters above,
blocking the roof of the man-made cavern. Until its gravity
engines create a languid ﬁeld of low gravity beneath it,

suspending blocks of ice. Soon the engine will be ready to
join its brethren in the sea.
I smile in satisfaction.

***LysanderUpon landing on the Annihilo, Diomedes and I lead the
Rim deputation down a corridor of Ash Guard. Instead of
the ceremonial armor appropriate for the reception of
enemy dignitaries, Atalantia’s elite wear ﬁeld armor.
Perhaps that is because they do not formally recognize the
Rim’s independence. The beetle-black metal of the ﬁeld
armor is dented and scuﬀed from war on four spheres. But
the pearl House Grimmus skulls upon their breastplates are
polished to a gleam.
The slight was not meant to go unnoticed, nor does it.
This is not the welcome for a prodigal son or an old ally.
This is a presentation of force to blood traitors.
As we pass the rows of hostile Grays, I wonder how many
of them Atalantia pillaged from my Praetorians and my
family legions. I search, but ﬁnd no Praetorians. No Rhone
ti Flavinius, no Exter ti Kaan, nor even Fausta ti Hu
standing as oﬀicers before the ranks.

At the end of the corridor of Ash Guard, ten calamitously
large Obsidian Stained stomp their axe hafts into the deck
to bar our path to the waiting cadre of Core Golds. The
Stained step to the side, and for the ﬁrst time in a decade,
the two breeds of Aureate measure one another face-toface.
The Golds of the Core—battle-scarred and vain—drip in
priceless armor gilded and monstrously shaped by the
ﬁnest artiﬁcers the worlds have ever seen. Most wear their
hair short, in war fashion, and their eyebrows notched.
Their thick-boned frames are fortressed by heavy muscle
grown under strict prenatal observation, esoteric chemical
protocols, and tenacious physical competition with their
peers.
I would not say they are humanity perfected. They seem
more like racing Thoroughbreds jockeying for position.
In comparison, the Golds of the Rim are lean and shabby.
Their bodies, like their culture, hardened by privation and
self-discipline. They wear their hair long, preferring to
comb it before battle in the way of the Peloponnesians.
They are clad in simple leather boots and drab robes they
sewed themselves. Not one amongst them wears anything
that couldn’t be bought at a lowColor bazaar for ﬁfty
credits, except their kitari short swords and their long
razors, which they call hasta.
The silence between the two parties stretches with
contempt.
When at last one of the Core Golds speaks, it is a Martian
I long thought dead. The winged shoulders of her swan
armor are dented, but the ﬂaming heart of her breastplate
burns bright in the drab hangar. Her face, smooth as
alabaster in memory, is now tough as a miner’s heel. But
not even war could dim the spark in the eyes of Kalindora
au San. The Love Knight.

I remember her as a demure, gentle creature in love not
with the glory of war, but the grace of poetry and
architecture. When I was a boy, I held only one other
woman her age in equal esteem: Virginia au Augustus. The
wife of the Reaper, and my grandmother’s usurper.
As a man, I behold Kalindora far diﬀerently.
Even Diomedes takes a second look. Her lips, though
riven by two scars, are full and seem only capable of
whispers. Her nose is small and sharp, but her deﬁning
characteristic is her eyes. Every gradient of gold that exists
spirals toward the pit of her pupils, paling in hue as they
approach that darkness so it seems as if one stares at an
eclipse.
“Is it him?” Kalindora asks a taller, younger knight in
armor the color of a storm cloud. His skin is black, his eyes
violent amber. The pelt of a pearl leopard sways from his
powerful shoulders as he steps forward to examine me. For
a moment, it feels as if we’re both looking through a dirty
pane of glass, leaning and squinting to see if the apparition
on the other side is really a long-lost friend or merely some
trick.
I barely recognize the man I once called “brother.”
Only the long lashes of his eyes are the same.
In the eleven years since I last saw him, his plump
features, often an item of hushed ridicule on the Palatine,
have melted away to reveal an Adonic visage so surly, so
passionate, so manly even Cassius might, in a drunken
moment, declare some minor ﬂaw in the man in hopes of
diluting his own utter jealousy.
Octavia was always disappointed in her little genetic
experiment. She would not be now. Ajax, son of the loveless
genetic union of Aja and Atlas au Raa, is a masculine
specimen.

By the phalera that bedeck Ajax’s armor, I see he has
already fulﬁlled his childhood dreams. He wears not just
his Peerless scar, but insignia signifying the oﬀice of Storm
Knight, and the rank of a full Legate infantry commander.
With my scarless face and my drab civilian vestments,
before the two Olympic Knights, I feel my ten-year absence
more acutely than ever.
“You are the man who claims to be Lysander au Lune,”
Ajax sneers.
“Ajax.” Mistaking his tone for banter, I reach to embrace
him. The Stained block my path. I actually feel wounded.
“Don’t you recognize me?”
Ajax’s eyes narrow to slits. “Test him with the Manteío.”
In Greek, it means “oracle.” I’ve played with oracles
before. My heart sinks. Then a Pink slave glides forward to
present me not with one of Grandmother’s pale truthmeasuring creatures, but with a black metal orb ringed
with serpents. In the center of the orb is an upturned
needle.
“A drop of blood, if it please the dominus.”
Though it may look kinder than my grandmother’s
oracles, I suﬀer no delusions. The needle will be coated
with a DNA-coded poison. If I prove an imposter, my death
will be a misery so profane it could only be designed by the
cruelest of Venusian alchemists—the best of which
Atalantia has on permanent retainer. Even if I prove my
identity, the fate may be the same.
The fact that Atalantia has my DNA at all suggests the
depth of her intelligence operations. Owing to two
sophisticated poisonings of Sovereigns and one dreadful
incident of cloning, my family guards their DNA as if it
were life itself.
Why else would we convince the rest of the Aureate to
embrace the ritual of shooting the deceased into the sun?

Because it looks pretty? Nothing is to be left behind.
I prick a thumb with the needle.
The Core Golds watch as a single drop of blood rolls
down the needle to be absorbed into the metal. Whatever
poison it contained does not activate. If Atalantia didn’t
have my DNA before, now she does. The orb ripples with
wonderful ingenuity as the serpents carve paths along its
exterior until a bust of my preadolescent face stares back
at me. The slave returns it to Ajax.
He examines the face.
“DNA proﬁle conﬁrmed,” a bald Green adjunct says. His
pupils glow from his uplink. “Security helix processing.” A
lengthy pause. Kalindora turns, but Ajax’s eyes never leave
my face. “DNA proﬁle authenticated. Forgery probability
one in thirteen trillion.”
“I concur,” Kalindora says. Her demeanor softens.
The Core Golds stiﬀen at the news, their competitive
brains calculating how my return aﬀects their individual
machinations.
Still unconvinced, Ajax tosses the Manteío to the slave.
“What did my grandfather say to my mother the night he
had her execute Flavius au Grecco?”
I don’t smile at the memory. “Now that the pig is ﬁlleted
and eaten, what’s for dessert?”
His eyes widen.
“Brother!” He springs through the Obsidians to rattle my
bones with a powerful hug that lifts my feet clean oﬀ the
deck. This is the Ajax I remember. The kind, generous
brother who could never bridle either aﬀection or fury. “I’m
sorry, we had to be certain. The enemy is devious in his
gambits.” When he sets me down, he clutches my face
between his long-ﬁngered hands and kisses me ﬁrmly on
the mouth. “Little Lysander. Haha! They said you were
dead. But look at you…” He dusts oﬀ my shoulders.

“Corporeal as a cormorant and still a spry dandy of a thing
after so long in captivity.” He makes a feint at my face.
“Not that spry.”
Captivity.
Cassius would laugh.
I’m not eager to disabuse Ajax of the notion just yet.
“They said you were your mother’s spitting image,” I
reply. “They didn’t say you were taller.”
It’s an understatement. He’s far larger.
Awash with joy, he claps my shoulders and leans his
forehead down to press it against mine. He breathes deep.
Scent has always been his favorite sense.
“When we received the family code, we thought it was
one of the Slave King’s tricks. Then we saw your signiﬁer.
The complexity of the code was a symphony upon my
heartstrings.” He closes his eyes. “Together again.”
“Together again, brother,” I say. It still seems impossible
to me, and I hold back because I know the revelations I
must share will be held against me. Only when Ajax hugs
me after I have shared those revelations will this reunion
be real. “I mourned for your grandfather. He deserved far
better.”
Ajax pulls away, his face downcast.
“Yes, well, he made his mark, didn’t he? Now it is our
turn.” His eyes break away from our private moment long
enough to survey the Raa. His voice becomes truculent.
“Unless you have a new family…”
Kalindora clears her throat. With apologies, I greet her
with less informality than I would like and introduce
Diomedes and the Rim deputation. In reply to Diomedes’s
formal bow, Kalindora merely clicks her tongue.
“When we received Lysander’s communiqué, we thought
you a mummer’s ﬁction. But here you are, bold as alley
cats, and just as dusty.”

“On behalf of the Rim Dominion—” Diomedes begins
before Kalindora interrupts him.
“Your uncle extends his apologies. Atlas would be here to
greet you himself, but war is a…consuming aﬀair.” Her
lovely eyes narrow. “I’m sure you wouldn’t know.”
Ajax steps territorially between Diomedes and me to
measure the Rim Knight. “So you’re the eldest spawn of
Romulus and that Venusian whore. How bold you must be
to liberate Lysander from the captivity of the Traitor.” So
that is what they call Cassius. Not ideal. “I suppose I owe
you a debt, cousin.”
Odd as it is to hear aloud, they are cousins. Both with the
pure Raa blood of the Conquerors in their veins. But, like
so many of the dwindling apex genetic lines, they hold little
in common except that shared lineage and the layered
animosity of ancestral inﬁghting.
Diomedes looks at me, then back to Ajax.
“I hold no man in my debt,” he replies.
“I assume the Traitor is dead?” Ajax asks. Diomedes
nods. “Did you deliver the killing blow? Did he squeal?”
Diomedes does not reply. “I see your aesthetic penury
extends to your vocabulary. In the Core, it is polite to
answer a question when asked.”
Seraphina’s jaw muscles work as she watches her
brother suﬀer the insult.
“I take no joy in the demise of an honorable man,”
Diomedes says to the taller man with princely dignity. “But
I fear before he fell, he…slew your half-brother,
Bellerephon.”
Ajax startles Diomedes with a laugh. Despite his
admitted dislike for his cousin Bellerephon, seeing
amusement at the death of a man he knew all his life ﬁlls
Diomedes with a sense of disappointed understanding. He

is in a diﬀerent world now where down is up and up is
down. One can never really prepare for that.
“Bellerephon?” Ajax laughs. “Never knew the spawn. Our
spies say you were barely better than him with the blade.
Tell me, who is the most exemplary of the Rim Knights?
You?”
“I would be a poor judge. But if you measure the worth of
a man by his skill with a blade, then I imagine it is the
person least like you.”
Seraphina blinks at her brother as if he just grew horns.
A slow smile grows.
The Rim is not here to be pushed around.
Kalindora raises an eyebrow at me.
Ajax, on the other hand…well, he was mocked as a child,
and does not like it any better as a man. He circles
Diomedes and succumbs to mock rage when he spies the
lightning and clouds on Diomedes’s cloak. “It seems you
wear my crest, goodman.”
“It is not your crest any more than it was the crest of the
man who came before you. It represents an idea. In our
case, humility.”
“Humility? And how is that?”
“A man is nothing before the storm.”
Ajax stands nose-to-nose with the smaller man. “I am the
storm. Take it oﬀ.”
Oh, Hades is the shared thought of every single person
watching, maybe even Ajax. Atalantia certainly doesn’t
want him killing or getting killed by a Raa in a hangar bay.
Never deny your enemy a chance for retreat. Victory may
cost too much.
“Why?” Diomedes replies evenly. “I am the Storm Knight
of the Rim Dominion. I make no claim to be that of the
Core.”

“Yet you are wearing it in the Core, my goodman. How
could I bear such a slight to me, and to an oﬀice which I
hold in such high esteem? To do so would curl my cock with
indignity.”
It’s a clever move by Ajax, and a credit to how bright he
is. It allows Diomedes a way out, at a toll. Diomedes
recognizes it and pays willingly. He removes his cloak and
folds it in his hands.
Ajax spoils his victory and loses the respect of all but
sadists by ripping the cloak from Diomedes’s hands and
pissing on it. Then Ajax seals up his pelvic armor and looks
at me.
Do you defend him?
With Ajax, you’re either with him or against him. Today, I
cannot aﬀord the latter, and recognize the social stratagem
he uses now. It is called Requisite Disrespect, a protocol of
the Dancing Mask. One of Atalantia’s favorite ploys.
“Are you quite done, Ajax?” Kalindora asks with a sigh.
Ajax wipes his hands on Diomedes’s homespun tunic.
“Quite.”
Seraphina has had enough. She steps forward, hand on
kitari, stopped only by a quiet click of her brother’s tongue.
Whatever that click means, she takes it very seriously.
Ten Obsidian Stained make a guttural sound as they
lower their axes. But Ajax and the Core Golds simply watch
like a row of patient crocodiles. Now they know there is
some hot blood in the Rim after all. Whether it is in an hour
or ﬁve years, they will exploit it, either collectively or
individually.
I warned Diomedes.
“By Juno’s cunt, your catamite is sensitive, Raa,” Ajax
purrs, playing it oﬀ as a farce instead of a temperament
reconnoiter.

“My sister is merely stretching after her long journey,”
Diomedes replies.
“Sister? Sister?” Ajax asks. “But where are the tits? Do
you now sear them oﬀ like Seﬁ’s winged lesbians?”
“No, but on the Rim, we geld unctuous Obsidians,”
Seraphina replies. “Step closer, gahja. I’ll muster a
tutorial.”
Ajax bows in amusement at the invitation. “Perhaps later,
cousin. But for now, I believe Kalindora is at her wit’s end
with me. Apologies, of course. It is just so exciting to have
Raa back in the fold. The last ones were too short-lived.”
With large stepping motions, he mocks how a Julii boot
famously stomped Diomedes’s and Seraphina’s elder sister
to death. Then he throws an arm around me and motions
the Raa to follow. “Welcome to the Ash Legions.”

***Darrow“Operation Voyager Cloak is live,” I tell the cluster of

oﬀicers who gather in the mess hall of the construction
site. Glirastes has been removed, bound for Heliopolis,
where he’ll be under guard until the operation is complete.
Those who remain are engineering Legates, Blue ﬂight
commanders, and cocky sky rangers, all veterans of at least
two campaigns. Reliable, in other words. Harnassus sits in
stony silence. “You have been laboring in darkness. The
details of Voyager Cloak have been compartmentalized for
security reasons. Allow me to paint the full picture.
“What you know: Atalantia is meticulous. After our little
dance in the graveyard, she has cleared the debris ﬁeld and
the mines. Mercury is fully blockaded. She has tactical and
numerical superiority—likely two to one on the ground.
From her position she can destroy any ship that attempts to
breach orbit, and launch a Rain to reinforce any point on
the planet within twenty minutes. Our ability to respond
pales in comparison. Eﬀectively, this gives her the ability to

ﬂank any of our units at leisure. Our shields are our only
advantage. As long as they are up, she has no artillery
support and will not risk landing ground elements. If our
shield chain falls, we lose. Full stop.
“Once she has destroyed us, she will turn her eyes on the
Republic. Some of you believe we should hold tight for
reinforcements from Luna.” I avoid looking at Harnassus. It
isn’t time to dress him down. “Let me dispel that notion. If
reinforcements come, Atalantia will know and launch an
invasion on her terms before they can arrive. By that time,
the Fear Knight will have already taken steps to weaken
our position in ways we cannot counter. They will have the
initiative and the sky. Again, we lose.
“We cannot retreat, we cannot surrender, we cannot
attack, we cannot wait. Our only option is to deﬁne the
terms of engagement. We will invite them in.” They lean
forward.
“The tanks and infantry meant for Mars, Luna, and Earth
will die here on Mercury.”
I am proud that the oﬀicers do not ﬂinch.
Any illusions of rescue that my return might have awoken
now dispel.
I cannot wave my hands and whisk them back to Mars.
This is no tale of salvation, it is one of sacriﬁce. This is
our Thermopylae.
“What you don’t know: Several nights ago, the ﬁrst stage
of Operation Voyager Cloak went into eﬀect when the Fear
Knight shot down a blacksparrow east of the Hesperides.
On board was a corpse planted by Howler intelligence
agents with a dataStack of intelligence information
regarding a vulnerability within our shield chain.
“It appears the Fear Knight has taken the bait. As we
speak, he is being herded by the Howlers toward Eleusis,
which, once destroyed, will lead to a chain-overload of

shield generators, creating a small gap south of Pan in the
Plains of Caduceus that Atalantia will ﬁnd impossible to
resist.
“The terrain is perfect landfall. It is ﬂat enough for her
tanks. Dry enough for her titans. Wide enough to land ten
legions at a time. And in perfect position to split our
northern forces, overrun our defenses on the Children on
the Petasos Peninsula with aerial infantry, and roll tanks
westward down the coast to hit Tyche.
“That landfall is our killbox. It is mined with atomics,
surrounded by two hidden army groups supported by six of
our ten remaining torchShips and Red Reach base. When
Atalantia’s army lands there, it will be annihilated from
three sides. She will retreat along the only route available:
south into the Waste of Ladon. They say that desert eats
armies. I mean to feed it another.”
They grin and wait for the reason they’ve been gathered
four hundred klicks north, barred from the ﬁeld of battle by
an entire sea.
“Why then are you here?” I take a moment to look each
of them in the eyes. “You are not part of Operation Voyager
Cloak. The men and women in this room will form
BlueReach Seven, under direct command of Orion from
BlueReach One, oﬀ the coast of Tyche. If all else fails, you
are my insurance policy. You are Operation Tartarus.”
—
After the oﬀicers disperse to receive direct orders from
Orion, I motion Harnassus to take a walk with me along the
excavation site. We have business to ﬁnish. And I want
witnesses. The engine has settled back into its berth after
its test run. Engineers call to one another as they make
last-minute adjustments. “So you ﬁgured a way to make

them sync-compatible,” Harnassus says. “And a way to
handle the data-load. It will be terabytes per second.”
“I know.”
“My Blacksmiths saw them installing foreign tech in the
control room. If not my men, who designed it?”
“We had to use all available resources on such short
notice.”
“What resources?”
“The Master Maker Glirastes.”
His face goes blank. “Glirastes. He’s already tinkered
with enough, don’t you think?”
“He is the only man on Mercury who studies ancient tech
for pleasure,” I say. “If you could have done it, I’d have
asked you.”
“He is a Gold pet.”
“I know you disagree with this course—”
“That is an abuse of language.” Harnassus’s voice
doesn’t rise a decibel. “When you said we would let them
inside our shields, I thought I misheard. When you told me
what we were unearthing, I thought I’d gone mad. Now
you’re telling me there’s not one engine but seven, run with
the tech of a Gold pet. I haven’t gone mad.” He jabs a
ﬁnger up into my chest and calmly says, “You have.”
I look down at his puny ﬁnger.
“Control yourself, Imperator. We set the tone. Tartarus is
merely—”
“Insurance, yeah. I heard.”
“You don’t think we can match them on the ground.”
“No.”
“Need I remind you this is still the army that freed both
our homes?”
“Except no Seﬁ, no Sevro, no Seventh.” The crossed
wrenches on his uniform glint as the Terran folds his thick

forearms over each other. “The enemy is freshly
provisioned from Venus, her legions replenished, her
machines serviced. These aren’t softfoot Pixies. These are
the full Ash Legions. That means Legios XX Fulminata, XIII
Dracones, X Purdus. On our best day, any of those would
test our mettle. But she’s brought all of them. And this isn’t
our best day. Just a week ago, my men were melting down
scrap metal so we could ﬁll the Twenty-third’s magazines.
Scrap metal. Not depleted uranium. Scrap metal. Darrow,
you know I am no Cassandra. But the moment the ﬁrst
Peerless boot touches Mercurian soil, we’ve lost the planet.
This isn’t Thermopylae. This is Cannae. We will die in the
Ladon.”
I ignore the appeal to the classical obsession I share with
the Golds.
“Harnassus, we lost the planet the moment you sent half
the ﬂeet home.”
He appraises me coolly. “So there it is. You want to ﬂog
me for it? You want an apology? Fuck you. There’s your
apology. I obeyed my oath. The sword of the people should
never silence its voice. And the voice of the people is the
Senate. Not you.”
“And what does the Senate tell you now?” I cup my ear.
“The voice isn’t speaking. So the sword will.”
“You know why I prefer Sevro to you? He might burn hot.
But you go cold. There’s no talking to you when you’re like
this. You’re inhuman. You’re a god emperor.”
His Blacksmiths have noticed the tenor of our
conversation if not its content. Thraxa worried over my
choice of theater for this game, surrounded by Harnassus’s
men. But you don’t get the wolf by the tongue without
reaching through its teeth.
He steps close to me. “You didn’t come back to save us.
You came back to kill them.” He suppresses a shudder of

anger. “You’re rolling dice in the dark. Reinforcements may
already be en route. At least try to run their blockade. Get
a signal out. Contact the Senate. Learn their intentions. You
have a solemn duty to keep the men alive as long as
possible. And if you use those engines, we’re as bad as the
enemy.”
“Harnassus. Look around. Does today look like a day
where I am inclined to entertain anyone’s moral
protestations? I am going forward. Are you with me,
Imperator?”
“And if I’m not?”
“My left hand can’t have a mind of its own.”
At my command, ten black-clad Howlers ﬁle out of the
Necromancer. The chameleon properties of their
pulseArmor ripple to match the pale ice. Felix tilts his
buzzed head.
Harnassus’s face falls. “You would use Howlers…on me?”
“That choice is yours.”
The most terrifying Golds, Obsidians, and Grays in the
legions stare him down. Each one would kill him for me, or
slam cuﬀs on his wrists and throw him in the brig.
Harnassus glances at his Blacksmiths, wondering if they
would do the same. He comes to the correct conclusion and
lowers his voice. “If you are forced to choose between
saving our army and killing theirs, I need your word you
will choose us.”
“We are an expeditionary force. Our mission is to ﬁnd
and destroy the enemy.” I grin. “Well, we’ve found ’em.
Your answer, Imperator.”
He stares at the ground, hands quivering at his sides. He
lost the army as soon as I returned. I understand him well
enough to know he once harbored thoughts of stepping in if
I took us to the edge. Now he knows that was never an
option. “Damn you,” he says and looks up. “Damn you.”

Though the anger never leaves his eyes, he delivers his
salute with a precision few would think his slumped body
could manage. He holds it far too long for my tastes. “Hail
Reaper.”
“Sir…” Rhonna says from behind. “It’s Pup One.”
In the Necromancer’s communications bay, a meter-tall
hologram of Alexandar warps in and out, eroded by the
jamming tech from Atalantia’s ﬂeet. Harnassus and Orion
crowd in behind me.
“Lost…Fear…in the…Ladon.”
“Does that mean Fear’s going after Eleusis?” I ask. “Did
he take the bait?”
“…bait…no…from…Ang…” Harnassus crosses his arms
and strains to hear Alexandar. “Distress…from…No…
cation.”
“Repeat. Pup One. Repeat.”
“Did not take bait. No movement on Eleusis….received a
distress call from Angelia. Communication from…Angelia…
since 06…”
“Angelia…” I murmur. Angelia is a small city in the mideastern Ladon, one we used for civilian evacuation from the
cities surrounding our killbox. It’s under the Northern
Shield Chain, but not a generator nexus like Eleusis. Atlas
was supposed to attack Eleusis. I left it wide open for him,
practically begging to be assaulted.
Perhaps it begged too much.
Harnassus’s jaw muscles work overtime.
“The bastard knows. He guessed your plan.”
“Specious assumption,” Orion replies. “Angelia doesn’t
have a generator like Eleusis. It’s under the shadow of
Kydon’s.”
“Then what does he want there?” Harnassus asks. “What
does it have? Darrow?”

I can’t wait for further intel. A decision must be made.
But if I play my hand too soon, it all falls apart. Dammit.
What went wrong? “Harnassus, you’re done here. I want
you back in Heliopolis.”
“Away from the ﬁght with the civilians and rear echelon?”
he asks.
“The ﬁght will be at Tyche. When we lose the air, we’ll
need you to continue to supply us reinforcements via the
gravLoop. And we need to protect the integrity of the
command chain. If I fall in the desert and Orion falls with
the engines, the army must have a commander.”
That’s the thing about Harnassus. Whatever our
diﬀerences, when the enemy comes, he’s got my back. He
snaps a salute. As he turns, he glares at Orion. I watch her
as he departs. One by one, my bodyguards slide down the
passage into the garage below. They know what’s coming.
Here we go again. The thought ﬁlls me with exhaustion.
“I need you at BlueReach One,” I tell Orion. “Take any of
the shuttles, get the rest of the pilots to their engines.” I
grab her arm as she moves to the passage. “We do not raise
the Storm Gods above primary horizon. Swear to me.”
“On my life.”
I bring her forehead to mine. “From Vanguard till Vale,
sister.”
She smiles in remembrance of that old ship where we
met. “Vanguard till Vale, brother.” She departs and takes
something of me with her. You never know anymore when
you will see a friend again. Or if. Of all the people I know,
Orion has never said what she would do after the war. I feel
a need to know now, but she’s already calling to her storm
pilots and shoving them toward shuttles.
“You think she’s all there?” Rhonna says from the
disembarkation plank. “If she goes Blood Red…”
“I have an insurance plan.”

“ ’Course you do.”
I turn to her. About to tell her to go with Harnassus,
when I see she understands what I mean…what exactly I
mean by insurance plan on Orion. Fuck. She sees right
through me.
“Where is it?” she asks. “Just in case…”
In case I lie dead on the battleﬁeld, she means.
When I asked Glirastes to build the sync hardware for
the Storm Gods, I had him construct a safety valve so that
the Blues running it couldn’t decide the fate of the planet
without me. I pull the master switch from my coat and
brandish it at Rhonna.
“And in armor?” she asks.
“Second thigh box. Right leg.”
And like that, she ensures her place at my side. I’m sorry,
brother.
I send a message to the Howlers: “Alexandar, tell Thraxa
to reconnoiter Angelia. Do not engage the Fear Knight. I’m
on my way.”

***Lysander“Lysander au Lune. HOW vital you look, for a ghost.”

Atalantia lifts me from my knees to embrace me in her
meditation chamber. “Look, Hypatia, our old friend,” she
croons. The tamed black vasta serpent that coils about
Atalantia’s throat like a necklace eyes me with reptilian
indiﬀerence. “Go on, my dear, give dear Lysander a kiss.”
I’d forgotten how terrifying it is to feel the cold scales of
Venus’s most venomous creature against your lips. As I pull
back from the kiss, I watch the snake’s chameleon scales
wash pale to match my skin tone, and then darken as it
coils back around Atalantia’s neck. “She remembers you!”
Atalantia croons.
Her meditation chamber is more pleasant than her
jewelry. Unlike Grandmother, Atalantia enjoys a little chaos.
Her chamber is a garden with some of the most esoteric
vegetation I have ever seen. Under a dome of stars, helix
trees with violet leaves wend like DNA strands. Birds sing.
And even a monkey or two swings in the trees. Were it not

for Mercury turning outside the viewport, I would not know
I was on a battleship.
My favorite touch is the carnivorous orchids perched
upon babbling cupid fountains. Their tongues reach for me
as I look at Atalantia.
Like Ajax, Atalantia has changed in my absence. Now in
her late forties, the youngest Grimmus sister is lean and
hungry-looking. She looks not a day over twenty-ﬁve except
in the eyes. But where once reclined the whimsical
heartbreaker of the Palatine now stands a soldier.
Gone are the gowns and the jewels and the hair swaying
in braids down past her lower back. Gone are the diamond
nails and spiced champagne ﬂutes and the halls ﬁlled with
muscled Pink paramours. The gowns have been replaced by
a dramatic black uniform with rows of golden spikes and a
death’s-head on each shoulder, and the paramours by a
ship full of the intrepid killers from my generation, the iceeyed veterans of her own, and the remaining legends of the
one before.
Atalantia’s hair is faded on the sides, in short braids on
the top. One could almost mistake her for one of those
humorless martial Martians she used to mock.
Seeing her again is like touching a fragment of home.
More even than seeing Ajax or Kalindora. She was close
with my parents. While I have always feared Atlas, my
father’s best friend, I have never feared my mother’s. In
many ways, Atalantia was as much a protector to me as Aja
was.
We are joined by Ajax, Kalindora, and, via hologram, an
endangered species—the Primuses of the remaining houses
of the Conquering. They are Carthii, the rich and licentious
shipbuilders of Venus; the purity-obsessed Falthe, nomadic
after their lands on Earth fell; and Votum, the poetic, yet
ultimately practical metal-mining magnates and builders of
Mercury, recently evicted, of course.

Absent are the upstart families who have risen through
war still deemed petty by this lot. And, most notably, the
ancient Saud, the infantry purveyors of Venus. Dido’s
family are the chief rivals of the Carthii, Atalantia’s
strongest allies. Their absence speaks volumes.
So this is still a den of carnivores. It will prove a diﬀicult
audience. At least I am spared from telling Julia au Bellona
of Cassius’s fate at the hands of the Rim. She is not here.
“I grieved to hear of your father’s death,” I say to
Atalantia according to court protocol. “Long was his toil.
Great were his deeds. May he rest unburdened in the Void.”
Beneath heavy lids, her eyes ﬂash like matchheads. They
search my face, the room, for more fuel to burn. They fall
on my vestments and dance with ﬁre. “Dear child, I do say,
your fashion seems to have become rather bleak…”
“Your father—”
“Did I teach you nothing? Sweet Lysander! Idleness is no
reason to discount the hoof maintenance of your steed, just
as war is no excuse for poor tailoring. We will have to
amend your sins at once. It is a matter of self-respect. I
have three of the premiere tailors in all Venus aboard. One
week with them, and you will look like a king.”
That is a dangerous word in this company.
It is better I say nothing.
She sighs and looks up at the stars. I spare a glance for
the giant mural that dominates the far wall. It is the one
Octavia commissioned of our family, and our closest allies,
the gens Grimmus. Ajax, Atlas, and Aja stare out, but of the
dead, nothing can be seen of their faces.
Atalantia has painted them out.
Including mine.
“Father always thought it would be Lorn who would do
him in, one way or another,” she says, noting my interest in
the painting and looking at her father, whose death shroud

is freshly painted. “He wouldn’t have minded that, or even
Nero. But a cur, a half-breed, and a slave?” She makes a
faint sibilant sound. “What an indecorous age we inhabit,
dear boy. No one gets the death they deserve. It is most
uncouth.”
“What sort of farce is this, Atalantia?” mutters Scorpio au
Votum’s hologram. He has always been a pedantic,
mathematical creature. He has also just eclipsed one
hundred years of age, and is on his sixteenth paramour.
“We hardly have the time for this…sideshow. There are
logistics to discuss.”
Atalantia rolls her eyes to me. As if saying “Look what I
must bear,” but there’s still a gulf between us. She is wary
of my intentions, as is only natural.
“Farce?” Ajax hisses, coming to my defense. “And what is
farcical about Lysander returning from the grave,
Scorpio?”
“At this late hour, a lost boy stumbles to us from the
fringes of civilization on an enemy ship?” Scorpio scoﬀs.
“Pardon my incredulity, but it seems devious engines are at
work.”
“How I love the mausoleum of conspiracies in your mind,
Scorpio. Such a delight. But I wonder, do you intend to
accuse me of devious engineering?” Atalantia asks.
“I was suggesting the lupine variety.” He wasn’t. “But,
since you ask, I would remind you that Mercury belongs to
my family, not the gens Grimmus, not the gens Lune, not
this confederacy of Two Hundred we have cobbled together
to include even the most diluted blood. We built Mercury.
We tamed its orbit.”
“Silenius and his heirs did pay for it….” Kalindora adds.
In the mind of the Votum Primus, the youth of Kalindora
and her pitiful bloodline, one a scant three hundred years
old, is of little concern. He rails on. “Pray tell, Atalantia, do

you truly believe the support of the heir will make us forget
our deed to this planet? No. No. Precocious as you are, you
are not the only one with an army. You are ﬁrst amongst
equals, but that does not make you our Sovereign. Nor will
it ever.”
Atalantia smiles at him. “If I mistook that for a threat,
Scorpio, I might insist you have Atlas over for a midnight
tea. I know, you can invite your lovely children: Cicero,
Porcia, Ovidius, Horatia. Why not just invite the whole lot?”
Atlas’s name has a chilling eﬀect on the room. But it goes
deeper than their fear of just that man. In an era in which
these Primuses have witnessed the extinction of genetic
lines as old as their own, threats to family do not just
endanger the heart, but the survival of their ancient names.
“Of course, I am no Sovereign,” Atalantia says, sharp as a
tack now. “What need have I of groveling sycophants? Or
the burden of planetary management? My province is war,
my goodman. Only war. In it I have proven myself your
superior, and enjoy your conﬁdence in its prosecution.”
None disagree, not even Falthe, and he’s seen as many
battles as the Reaper himself. “This pertains to war. And I
say this is Lysander. And this is the ﬁrst time I have seen
him in ten long years. Yet I am generous enough to share
him with you. Why? Because I value your opinions. But if it
is accusations you seek to levy at me…well…that would be
disappointing.”
Silence. Ajax looms behind Atalantia like an unshaken
ﬁst. Atlas, like an unseen one. Yet for all that menace, the
Golds know Atalantia could only kill them at gravest cost to
herself. And it is not in the nature of those who rule planets
to tuck their tails, nor do they. However, Scorpio’s reply is
markedly more judicious.
“Lysander au Lune was in the Dragonmaw when it fell.
Since he is here, one wonders how he survived. How do we
know he is not an agent of the Rising? He may not even

know himself. I know I need not remind you of the
ruthlessness of our enemy. Or that you no longer hold the
monopoly on certain…technologies.”
“I am willing to accept that he is Lysander,” purrs
Asmodeus au Carthii. “Scorpio is just a paranoid arachnid.”
As Atalantia’s strongest ally, Asmodeus will seek to support
her, at my cost. He looks the same since I saw him last,
drunk in the gardens of the Palatine with drugged young
Pinks on each arm. Though well over one hundred, the
eerie creature has the tanned, unnatural face of a fortyyear-old, the blue veins of age rejuvenation no doubt
covered by concealer. The Carthii, while always dear to
Atalantia, are the very worst of the Core. I let him spill his
poison, but remember to look out for the more dire variety.
“We all know that Bellona just barely escaped Gorgo and
his assassins on Ceres not three years ago,” Asmodeus
says. “The beast reported a sprightly catamite nipping at
Bellona’s heels.” The famous letch gazes at me in the same
hungry way he did when I was a boy. “I believe we now
know the identity of that catamite.”
Kalindora laughs and slaps her armored thigh. “You old
pervert. You sure that wasn’t a dream of yours?” Ajax
snorts a surprised laugh. Asmodeus looks irritated, but
does not interrupt the soldier. “Neither Lysander nor the
Traitor would so debase themselves.” She gives me a wink.
“But maybe we should ask the man himself. I suppose he
may have some information on the subject, no?”
When I was a boy, Kalindora served on my protection unit
before rising to the rank of Olympic Knight. I see she’s not
lost her touch.
“Honored Primuses,” I say loud and clear. “I apologize
for my tardiness to the war. But I fear I must clarify my
absence. I was not kept prisoner of the Republic nor was I
Cassius’s catamite. After the murders of Aja and Octavia,
Darrow gave me to Cassius as a ward after he killed my

grandmother. It was with him that I have spent these last
ten years in the Belt.”
It was not exactly the reply Kalindora had in mind.
Instead of defusing the Golds, it sends them into amazed
laughter. Atalantia’s eyes widen slightly, while Ajax turns
very slowly to face me. “Ward?”
“Yes.”
He goes silent, knowing better than to air our dirty
laundry before the others. So he’s learned discretion.
Perhaps I should have tried that instead of honesty, but it
all would have come out eventually. Diomedes may be
honorable, but if his duty required him to drop this bomb to
gain leverage in the negotiations, he’d do it without
ﬂinching. Seraphina might tell them just for fun. The arch
traitor of my people raised me just as long as our dead
Sovereign did. While they might spit at me, it has a
corrosive eﬀect on their condescension. Bellona’s blood
was as old as theirs, and he was a very dangerous man.
What did he help raise?
“Well, that is truly abhorrent,” Atalantia says with a
whistle. “But from what your communiqué relayed, we are
to believe Cassius is dead.”
“Yes.”
She and Ajax share an intense look. “Good. We will take
custody of the body so that his mother may honor it with
sundeath, if she so chooses.”
“I do not have the body.”
Atalantia’s eyebrows ﬂoat upward, and around her neck
Hypatia begins to slither counterclockwise in agitation.
“Why not?”
“The body was stolen and desecrated by familiars of
Bellerephon au Raa, whom Cassius killed.”
“Desecrated in what manner?”
“I do not—”

Asmodeus hijacks the conversation with a cackle. His
jewel rings sparkle as he plays with his smooth chin. “Gone
for a decade, ward to Bellona, no care to return. But now
that you see a vacuum in power, you rush back like an
eager little piglet to claim your throne. We have our leader,
foul boy. Her name is Atalantia.”
“I did not return to claim anything,” I say. “I have no scar,
no inheritance, no right. I have come only to heal the divide
that created the Rising.” I look to Atalantia. “If I may?”
She nods. “This will be fun.”
The doors open and Diomedes and Seraphina are
ushered through. Animosity ﬂoods the room. I step back,
allowing Diomedes the ﬂoor. Seraphina broods at his side.
“By Jove…” Atalantia mutters. “Dour as a cloud. Pale as a
corpse. Is that a Raa, or the spirit of Akari himself?”
“He’s far less talkative,” Ajax says.
“Salve, Aureate.” Diomedes dips his head in respect. “I
stand Diomedes au Raa, son of Romulus and Dido, Storm
Knight of the Rim Dominion, Taxiarchos of the Lightning
Phalanx.”
“Ooo, what’s that?” Atalantia asks.
Diomedes is caught oﬀ guard. “A specialized mobile
legion.”
“Aren’t all legions mobile? Or do you have new ﬂight
hardware?”
He blinks at the pivot, then clears his throat. “This is my
sister Seraphina, Lochagos of the…Eleventh Dustwalkers.”
He waits for another interruption.
“Go on,” Atalantia encourages. “You’re doing splendidly,
young man.”
“It is our duty to bring you the tidings of the Moon
Council and the Consuls Dido au Raa and Helios au Lux.
They have given us the Dominion Seal.” He lifts his ﬁst to
show a huge iron gauntlet implanted with rotating stones.

“I am authorized to engage in parley with intent to ﬁnd an
agreeable and lasting truce between the Rim Dominion and
the Society remnant in order to counter the disease of
demokracy.”
There’s stunned silence.
“I’ll be damned,” Scorpio mutters. “It is true.”
Asmodeus cackles in disbelief. “Dido au Saud a consul?
Impossible. Those heathens despise civilized company!
Prithee, has Romulus gone mad?” Secretly he is worried.
Dido betrayed her family by marrying a Raa. If she were to
ally the Rim with Saud…oh dear. His predominancy on
Venus may be threatened. Kalindora seems to enjoy
Asmodeus’s vexation.
“Asmodeus, please desist,” Atalantia says. She turns back
to Diomedes. “Well, you certainly have your father’s…
presence. But tell me, why is Romulus the Bold no longer
Sovereign? Did he grow weary of pontiﬁcating? Atlas won’t
believe it.”
“Our father is dead,” Seraphina replies.
I did not include that in my communiqué.
No one speaks until Atalantia raises a hand like a pupil.
“Dead?”
Diomedes nods. “Under an oath of truth, he revealed that
he knew the destruction of the Ganymede Dockyards was
perpetrated by Darrow of Lykos and Victra au Julii, not
Roque au Fabii.”
“Darrow did that?” Atalantia laughs and claps her hands
together. Hypatia’s tongue licks outward at her mistress’s
delight. “Father was right. I knew it wasn’t Fabii. Darrow.
Darrow. Darrow. That mischievous little cockroach! I’m
almost proud of him. One trick too far, it seems. Well, we’ve
all been there. But Romulus dead. Dead? I did not think
Romulus could die. Tell me, how did he go? Civil war?

Assassination? Or did your mother ﬁnally eat him right
up?”
“After admitting his deceit and his slaughter of White
Arbiters, there was only one way to reclaim his honor,”
Diomedes explains. “He walked Akari’s Path to the Dragon
Tomb and succumbed to the elements.”
They stare at him like he’s gone raving mad.
“Did he reach it?” Ajax asks.
Diomedes swallows. “No.”
Then, as one, they begin to laugh.
It ﬁlls me with loathing to see their disrespect for the
man I admired nearly as much as I admired Cassius.
Seraphina looks like she would draw her razor if she had
one.
Only Diomedes stands unmoved. He’s learned from his
little talk with Ajax, and he’s learning what to expect from
the rest of them.
My respect for the man grows. As does Kalindora’s, it
seems.
“There is your monster in the shadows waiting to strike
at Venus, Asmodeus!” Atalantia laughs. “All that fretting
over a delusional suicide. Why, I daresay we shan’t ever
need bring the ﬁght to the Rim. If we can just get them to
all lie to one another, their honor will take care of the rest!”
“Romulus was an Iron Gold,” I say. “Honorable by any
measure.”
“Several steps short, it seems,” Ajax corrects.
“He deserves your respect,” I snap. “Or at the very least
the courtesy of not laughing before his progeny.”
The militant Falthe ﬁnally breaks his silence. “I will not
be lectured about honor by a scarless boy, no matter his
name. I was at Ilium, young man. Romulus slew my sister.
He drew his blade across her belly until her spine cut down

the middle. Until you have fought these…woebegone
ruminants in a corridor, you know nothing.”
“You ask us to respect Romulus, Lysander?” Atalantia
asks. “Respect for a man whose honor outweighed the
common good? Respect for the fool whose very rebellion
allowed for the Reaper to rise? Respect for the traitor who
fought side by side with the slave hordes at Ilium? Who
forsook his duty so terribly that even his own brother could
not stand at his side?” She wags a slender ﬁnger at me. “I
think you’re still lost, Lysander. Or are you as mad as them?
What do you think, nephew?”
Ajax tongues his teeth in contemplation. “He doesn’t look
mad.”
“So you’re not mad,” Atalantia says. She comes nose-tonose with me, her tone warm and conﬁding. “Then what
are you? Confused? Did they torture you?” Her eyes ﬂick to
Diomedes and Seraphina. “Was it the brute? Or the dusty
little mouse? We’ll peel them apart if you like. Put them on
one of Atlas’s poles.”
“You need an ally to tip the scales.”
She frowns. “No. All I needed was imperium. For years,
Father kept me on a leash as he waged his conventional
retreat. Apologies, war. For a hybrid foe, you need a hybrid
warrior. I have turned the tide, Lysander. My agents spread
poison in the enemy’s citadel. Atlas spreads it to the cradle
of their birth. Soon the rabble will slaughter one another.
We need no traitors here. We are upon the cusp of victory.”
I search their faces and ﬁnd nothing but arrogant
isolation. Each is barricaded behind their own power and
prejudice. It is warranted. Some recall relatives lost in the
Rim’s two rebellions. Many believe in the cultural
superiority of the Core. But all remember the taxes the
Rim’s rebellions cost them.

They cannot stand to admit the Rim would be helpful. So
they must be humbled ﬁrst. It would be far easier had I
battles to my name. Legions at my call. A scar on my face.
But the tools I do possess are not exactly toothless.
“Perhaps you are right. Perhaps you do not need the Rim.
But…” Atalantia turns on me with a warning look. “…if you
have all you need, then why are there so many ships still
damaged by the Battle of Caliban?” I ask. “Orion did not go
down without a ﬁght. Why not send the crippled ships back
to the Dockyards of Venus for retroﬁt?” I look around
innocently. No one answers. “Unless there is some reason
you cannot? Perhaps the Minotaur did more than kill
Magnus after he was freed by Darrow. Did he, by chance,
take the dockyards while he was on Venus?”
“You little scheming weasel!” Asmodeus cries. “How
could he possibly know that?”
“How many ships did the Minotaur take?” I press. “All
that were in dock? Clearly this play against the Free
Legions is a trap to lure the Republic ﬂeets. Draw their
main might and sneak around to raze their planets. But
without support from Venus, you can’t sail on Mars or
Luna. The jaws of the trap are set, but your foot is in it
too.”
“Lysander, please. Enough showing oﬀ,” Atalantia says.
“After the Minotaur’s capture, many of his men must
have gone over to you, Atalantia. How many swell to his
banner now? How many ships have slipped away?
Apollonius was a popular man. And it would make a curious
mind wonder why he would be so eager to kill Magnus.
Perhaps he was betrayed. Given over to the enemy.”
They look at me as if I’ve suddenly grown fangs.
I may not know the rules of the Rim. But I know the Core.
And I was right. Apollonius was betrayed. Likely because of
his popularity.

I feel a sense of loneliness. These are the people who
Cassius thought would send assassins for him. The ones he
judged so much worse than the Rising that he gave his life
to ensure they never won this war. If they do not even
agree to entertain the idea of allying with the Rim, then he
died for nothing.
“My goodmen, you are mid-stride into a campaign. One
which I assume was intended to be an unrelenting advance.
But without lifting a ﬁnger, Darrow has cut oﬀ your back
foot. Without your docks and reinforcements, you are
unable to go forward or backward. I oﬀer you an ally ten
years fresh. One with no claim nor desire nor manpower to
rule your spheres. They have been spit upon, and they have
come for satisfaction. Refuse them if you must. It is your
choice to make, not mine.”
The crickets by the fountain carry the conversation.
Ajax is the ﬁrst to speak. “If we destroy the Free Legions
as they strike the Belt bastions and the Dockyards of
Phobos, the trauma to the Republic would be absolute.
Lysander’s argument is not without virtue. Nor does it
detract from our imminent endeavor.”
“I know his argument has virtue,” Atalantia snaps. “It’s
obvious to a genital wart it has virtue. I. Just. Hate.
Moonies.” Her ﬁngers trace Hypatia’s scales as she thinks.
“I will be terribly honest, young Diomedes. I don’t think it
wise to dance with venomous creatures I didn’t nurture as
pups. But you did not kill my father, did you? Nor Octavia
for that matter. Nor Aja nor Moira. Murdering you would be
to court quagmire. And there are so many others you can
help me kill.
“Answer me this. Your docks were destroyed, yet
somehow you found a way to build new ships like that
curious corvette in my hangar. No, I will not dissect it,
because it will likely detonate if I do, yes?” Diomedes
shrugs. “Clearly you have an energy source to make war

feasible, even though the termites have made Mars an
impregnable bastion. How? Are you using foil caraval to
skim helium from the Gas Giants?” She bares her teeth. “I
know Atlas would know if you dared mine the Kuiper…”
Diomedes remains motionless as Atalantia’s queries
multiply. “How many warships does the Rim possess? How
many legions? These are things I need to know.”
Diomedes is amused she thinks he would ever tell her.
“In the event of an alliance, any tasks given to the Rim
necessary to the agreed-upon strategy will be fulﬁlled. That
is all I will say.”
“Oh, to be young and think you know how things are
done,” she says to the Primuses. “These are not injurious
queries, Diomedes. If I don’t know how strong you are, why
would I choose you for a dancing partner, young man?”
“Because all others are taken, and the song creeps upon
crescendo.”
Atalantia watches him with a growing smile. “Wait till
Atlas sees you!” She sighs. “There you have it, goodmen.
The ugly truth. To the boudoir we go again with our ugly
cousins.” Carthii tries to interrupt. “I am Dictator,
Asmodeus. My war powers are absolute. To protect our
predominance tomorrow, we must make concessions to
pragmatism today.”
Only after Atalantia assures the Primuses they will have
a hand in crafting the treaty after their imminent endeavor
do their holograms disappear one by one. It is not done.
There will be weeks of negotiations. Neither side will
budge. And eventually they will both leave feeling cheated.
But the alliance will happen. What’s more, I believe
Atalantia wanted it to happen as soon as she heard it was a
possibility. She does not celebrate, but in her mind she has
just won this war, and now has an angle on the next.
First the Rising. Then the Rim.

I feel suddenly very heavy wondering how I will manage
to convince her not to turn on the Raa as soon as she sees
proﬁt in it.
One of Atalantia’s muscular male slaves brings her a
piece of bread on a platter. She breaks several pieces to
share with the Raa. Once they have eaten, they are
formally her guests and under gens Grimmus protection.
Whoever means them harm is her enemy. It is a formality
that actually bears weight as it did for our ancestors;
Atalantia can hardly accommodate another enemy at this
stage.
“We will begin discussion tomorrow atop the Water
Colossus of Tyche,” Atalantia says. The Raa look at each
other then at the planet below. “Today, however, I require a
demonstration of good faith.”
She snaps her ﬁngers and a hologram of Mercury three
stories tall ﬁlls the star globe. It is stained with markers for
known enemy strongholds and legions, and wrapped with
thousands of dropship and starShell trajectories.
I knew something was afoot by the battle readiness
within the Annihilo, but I did not expect this.
So it will be an Iron Rain.
It is a risky and declarative gamble that could prove very
expensive. So either Atalantia is swollen with conﬁdence,
or she thinks her window is closing. I suspect I know where
Atlas is now.
Diomedes takes in the battle plan and frowns. “Our
instruments suggested the planet was shielded by a
fortiﬁed landchain of shield generators.”
“All suitable landfalls, yes,” Atalantia says. “For now.”
“How will you…”
She smiles. “Do you think Atlas returned from his Kuiper
sojourn just to tan in the desert? We have over nine million
Martian slaves trapped. I broke Darrow’s armada. I broke

Darrow’s heart. Now I break his back. If we kill him and
destroy the legions here, we shatter the alliance between
Mars and Luna. Virginia will see her little rebellion split
right down the center.”
“And you need the tank factories of Heliopolis and your
dockyards need Mercury’s metal to further your
campaign,” Diomedes adds.
“It has been a long war,” she allows. “You say you wish to
ﬁght with us at the end, Raa?” Here it comes: the
proverbial snakebite. “Prove it. Fall with us in an Iron Rain.
Shed blood at my side and I will know I have a true ally.”
The silence grows as Diomedes considers. “I am sorry.
But I cannot.”
“Of course not,” Ajax says with a laugh. “The Sword of Io
is best in its sheath.”
“I was trusted to be a voice, not a sword. It is
impossible.”
Atalantia raises her eyebrows, dangling the bait. “A pity. I
saw such promise in our union. But how can I trust an ally
tomorrow who will not ﬁght with me today? Ajax, please
escort them to their ship and send them back to their dust
bowl.”
I watch Kalindora as Seraphina thinks. Is Kalindora like
the rest of these predators? Enjoying the hunt, watching for
the takedown? Her face remains the same, but her eyes
search the shadows cast by Atalantia’s braziers as
Seraphina steps forward.
“I will do it.” Her brother wheels on her, overestimating
yet again the patience of the women in his family. “You are
the voice of the Rim, Diomedes. I am here only to assist you
in your mission. If I die, what of it?” She holds one hand
over the other hand in her family’s private way of saying
“shadows and dust.” “You desire a quota of blood,
Grimmus? You may have all of mine. Does that satisfy?”

Atalantia smiles. “It satisﬁes.”
As Diomedes realizes his sister will fall amidst an army of
men who would proudly mount the head of his father above
their mantels, he grows very still. I feel for him, but after
seeing Seraphina amongst the Ascomanni, if anyone can
survive their ﬁrst Rain, it is her.
Diomedes gives me a dark look as he and his sister are
ushered toward the door by Ash Guards. Atalantia nods for
Kalindora to leave. I am left alone with her and Ajax to
watch the door close. Atalantia drifts to the viewport to
stare down at the planet. She will be wondering what
machinations move in Darrow’s mind. I wonder the same.
“Ward?” Ajax says suddenly. I expected his anger, but
that did not diminish my dread of it.
“I—”
He moves with the sort of staggering velocity that is
impossible in the low gravity of the Rim. His ﬁst cracks
against my jaw so fast only the Willow Way’s instinct to go
with the blow saves me from having my jaw shattered and
my neck fractured. I slam into the ground nonetheless.
“Ward?” he roars.
Atalantia doesn’t even watch the reﬂection of the
violence in the viewport. I lift a hand toward Ajax. Lovely as
he was as a child, his moods could switch at the drop of a
pin. It’s far more noticeable now.
“Ajax…”
“That Bellona cunt killed my mother,” he growls,
stepping on my groin. “She was more a mother to you than
your own, you cockless cur.”
“Yes, she was,” I wheeze.
“And yet you tagged at Bellona’s heels for ten years? Ten
fucking years.”
“I had few…alternatives.”

“You could have returned to us. To me. Brother.”
“I am sorry, Ajax. I…should have. But…” He pushes down
harder, causing nausea to cascade up my belly and my
lower back to ache. “I was afraid.”
He’s horriﬁed by the admission, and almost takes his
boot oﬀ me completely. “Of what? Us?”
“Not you, Ajax. Never you. Of court. Of Gold eating
Gold.” I try to stand but he pushes me back down, more
gently this time. “You think I enjoyed seeing Aja cut to
ribbons? You think it meant nothing seeing Octavia hewn
from groin to sternum? You think I did not see how we did
the Rising to ourselves? The Jackal, Fitchner, Cassius, the
Martian Feud—all symptoms of the same disease. I wanted
no part of it.”
That, he understands.
As children, we mocked all the scheming snakes of the
court. Only Atalantia ever made it look good anyway, and
she did it for laughs. Moira was pure in her obsession for
truth. Aja pure in her duty to Grandmother. Lorn pure in his
honor. Even Darrow was pure in his then-inexplicable lust
to win.
Those were the people we admired. Not the snakes.
“Then why return now?” Atalantia asks. She senses but
cannot identify the private understanding Ajax and I share.
Is she jealous of it? Or suspicious? Either way, she turns
from the viewport.
“Because I believe it can be diﬀerent,” I say. “The Rising
has shown itself incapable of rule. While there were
injustices in Octavia’s time, there were not two hundred
million dead.”
“Two ﬁfty,” Atalantia says. “We hid a famine on Venus.”
That the death of so many could be unknown staggers
me. “It may not have been perfect, but it wasn’t this,” I say.

“I believe if we quell the Rising, we have a chance to ﬁx
what was broken not just by them. But by us.”
“Gods,” Ajax mutters. “He hasn’t changed a damn bit.”
“Told you,” Atalantia replies.
Ajax hauls me up by my jacket. “Still wants to be Marcus
Aurelius, I suppose.” He leans close, his voice conﬁding.
“The fact is, my mother spoke for Cassius. You remember.
When Octavia questioned his loyalty, my mother begged
her to give him a chance. She saw Lorn in his heart, I
wager. And he showed his gratitude by feeding her to the
wolves. I know you rationalized it away, because you think
your emotions are secondary programs or something. But
look at what I am. What I have become.” He gestures to the
kill marks. His dented armor. The double-thick gray razor
on his hip. “Do you think I became this for pleasure?”
“We understand the war inside you, Lysander. We always
have,” Atalantia says. “But that does not change that this is
not the return you should have had. Not for you, not for us,
not with them. You squandered yourself. You could have
come back a god. Think how I could have used that. Think
how your high-minded dream could have beneﬁted from
that.”
She sighs and lifts her hand like an opera singer.
“Of course, the legions will rejoice at your return. If used
properly, the return of the Heir of Silenius could still
inspire the worlds. I hear the songs even now.
“But you have much to prove. People will wonder—not
me, but others—if you are not a lackey of the Rim.” She
ﬂings her hands about. “Is he perhaps the Traitor’s trained
monkey? Perhaps even the Slave King’s puppet? They will
wonder: Is Lysander really an Iron Gold?”
Ajax takes oﬀense on my behalf. “He may be an
egregiously pretentious quisby, but he’s no puppet of the
Slave—”

She cuts him oﬀ with a look.
“Until the answers are incontrovertible, I fear I cannot
allow your return to become known, Lysander.” She makes
it seem like it’s for my own good, and succeeds, almost. I
go very quiet inside, recognizing Silenius’s Stiletto when I
see it. My path will grow very narrow very quickly, and it
will certainly cut my feet.
There is only one way forward.
I did not come back to be her rival, and so long as I do
not have a scar, I could never be. But if I survive what she
asks, by the traditions that have guided my people since
Silenius, I will earn a scar, and my inheritance, at great
cost to her own strength.
The other Gold families will choose a side if they see but
the tiniest crack of daylight between us. She knows that.
This is a sign of trust. She could do with my support.
Or it is a trap.
I cannot believe that. I will not. Atalantia was there the
day I was born. She was the ﬁrst to set me upon a horse.
What she oﬀers is an opportunity to shepherd the alliance
and take back the mantle of justice from the Rising, but to
do that, I must take the leap.
I bend again on my knee.
I was a fool declaring myself an Iron Gold to Dido. And I
feel a fool now. “Dictator, I ask your leave for House Lune
to fall in the Iron Rain.”
“Oh, he’s going to pop his cherry!” Ajax purrs.
Atalantia’s smile is incandescent. “Granted, son of Luna.”
She pulls me to my feet and kisses me softly on the mouth.
Ice, guilty excitement, and bewilderment race through my
veins as she lingers there, her mouth open, lips wrapped
around mine longer than appropriate even by Venusian
standards.
When she pulls back, she stares at me in pride.

“My little Lysander. Today, you will earn your scar. I have
no doubts.”
Ajax has grown quiet. “With whom will he fall?”
Still a little bewildered, I nod to him. “With you, brother.
If you will have me.”
He considers for a moment, suddenly very internal, and
then nods. “About gory time. With a good scar, maybe you
will look less like a Pink harlot.”
With a melancholy smile, Atalantia takes our hands and
guides us to the family mural. It is oddly stirring to stand
before what we considered our family. I remember the day
we all posed for Glirastes. Atalantia had six Pinks fanning
her with peacock feathers. My father teased her
mercilessly and apparently farted in her general direction.
Atlas even cracked a smile. I see him up there, a wan man
leaning on the far end of the frame beside Aja and chubby
little Ajax. He’s smiling at my father, likely because of the
fart. I cannot see my mother. Her face is hidden behind a
veil of gray paint.
“Octavia, Aja, Moira, Anastasia, Brutus, my father…all
gone,” Atalantia whispers. She grips our hands as if she
never wanted to let them go. “Only we and Atlas remain.
But where there were three there are now four. Let the
slaves tremble.” She pauses. Then she rips her hands away
from ours as if we were the ones who pulled us all together.
“Right! Well, oﬀ to war now, boys. I’ll meet you in Tyche.”
She smiles at Ajax. “Or somewhere a bit…warmer.”

***DarrowThe sun hangs low and swollen over the desert as I roar

out the garage ramp. More engines whine behind me as
Rhonna and twenty bodyguards follow. Guided by Colloway,
ﬁst-sized drones careen through the sky to feed data into
my helmet. They sight gravBike signatures winding through
the sand like rectilinear snake tracks. In their troughs are
small depressions. Telltale sign of Gorgon skipper boots.
“Skip trace,” I say. “Stick tight.”
We abandon the tracks and push toward a string of
axeblade mountains. Following Alexandar’s coordinates, we
ditch the bikes at the base of the mountains and use our
gravBoots to scale the escarpments, careful to not ﬂy too
high for fear of ground-to-air missiles.
In short order, we ﬁnd Alexandar sitting with his helmet
oﬀ in the shadows of an arroyo. He wears lizardSkin light
armor, thinner and more sustainable long-term in the
desert than my pulseArmor. His looks to be held together

more by ﬁeld patches and dirt than nanoﬁber. Only his iron
lancer badge—a sword against a ﬂying pegasus—is clean.
Four weeks tracking the Fear Knight with Thraxa seem to
have worn him down to his essential elements. He is even
thinner, and taller, than his grandfather. His sunburnt skin
is drawn tight and ﬂakes around patrician cheekbones. On
his neck a wretched scab weeps puss. His warhawk is
smashed ﬂat and dark with helmet sweat.
He looks up as we scramble down. I recall my helmet into
its catch and wince at the heat, squinting hard until I step
into the shadows where it is ﬁfty degrees cooler. Alexandar
bolts to his feet. Beneath his chrome desert contacts, his
eyes are haunted.
“Bloodyhell, just sprawled out Fury-may-care,” Rhonna
says, her multiRiﬂe on her shoulder. Her eyes scan the
rocks. “Fear Knight’s gonna gut you while you have your
picnic, Princess.”
His face is too haunted to feign a smile. “We have
pathﬁnders.”
She half-lowers her riﬂe. “You look a ghost. You prime?”
Not long ago he would have bitten her head clean oﬀ
with a classist retort. Now he stares at her as if trying to
remember who she is. What has he seen out here?
“Thraxa is this way, sir.”
I ﬁnd Thraxa lying belly-down on a ridge overlooking a
plain stretching from the mountains to Angelia. She props
herself up on her elbows. One is made of ﬂesh. The other is
unpolished asteroid metal, etched with Obsidian runes by
Valdir Unshorn, Seﬁ’s mate, after Thraxa saved his life in
the running skirmishes over the Bay of Bengal.
The mountain ridge is littered with boulders and spiked
ephedra, but empty of Howlers. I toggle my right ocular
implant. Throbbing red embers from the quantum ID dots
in their skulls ﬂeck the ridgeline. Sevro’s little monsters.

They don’t feel whole without him. The army may miss its
mascot, but the pack misses its big brother. I’ve been too
much a distant father of late.
“Reap.” The large Telemanus acknowledges me without
looking. Her wolfcloak has taken on the color of the desert,
thanks to its chameleon properties. The two Obsidian
pathﬁnders move for me, and I crawl even with her as my
own cloak turns brown. Thraxa squints through a pair of
optics. Freckles form a mask over her face. She hands me
her optics set.
Knowing what I’ll see, I put the optics to my eyes. An alltoo-familiar forest has been erected in front of the city. I
feel nothing, but then again I don’t smell it yet.
“He did this while you slept?” I ask. “He would have
needed hours.”
“I shit the pot,” Thraxa mutters. I lower the optics. “We
lost him in the Buonides Range when he left the shield
shadow to cross a death valley.” She means the narrow
gaps exposed to Atalantia’s guns between our shield chain.
“I told you not to let him out of your sight.”
“The valley was too exposed. We had drones, and I sent a
man. By the time we found his trail, he’d abandoned his
course for Eleusis and had already reached Angelia.” The
wrong city.
She swats pointlessly at a scrill on her neck. More of the
two-headed bloodsuckers make homes in her wolfcloak.
“And your man lost them. Which?”
“Alexandar.”
I can’t hide my surprise. “How?”
“He crashed his bike into a hoodoo. Fell asleep at the
stick.”
“One is none. Two is one, Thraxa…”

“We were a hundred forty hours without sleep. Even with
the nazopran, the lows were hallucinating—had to rest ’em
in the cargo bins as we rode, even the Grays. Golds were
barely upright. Had to run solo. Alex’s the best soldier I’ve
ever seen at his age, including you. Still…” She spits in the
dirt. “We’re all blood and bone.”
I pushed them too hard. I thought Alex invulnerable. We
all did. But even with the proper gear, this desert eats men.
“Where is Atlas now?”
“Gone. Tracks lead north, bearing for Angelia.” She nods
to the Fear Knight’s display before the city. “Should I call
medships?”
“No. He came here for a reason, and it wasn’t to torture.
Get ’em ready. We’re pushing in.” She rallies the Howlers
as I raise my helmet and hail Orion. She’s only just made it
back to BlueReach One.
“Trouble?” she asks.
“Is there a way to spool up the Storm Gods without
showing our hand?”
“The blackslag you think these things are? They aren’t a
grunt’s hair trigger. We can’t cool as fast as we can heat.
Once we ramp up it’s a runaway to primary horizon.”
“What’s the lag on cloud coverage?”
“I’m told soon as the pressure systems activate, an hour.
Electrical in two. What happened?”
“Unclear.”
“Orders?”
I hesitate. If it’s activated too early, Atalantia will notice
the unnatural nature of the storm and call oﬀ the invasion.
Activated too late, the storm won’t matter. “Watch how a
pitviper strikes, my son,” Father said once as he clutched
my wrist and made me play his game. “Watch it coil upward
and upward till it reaches its crest. Don’t move before then.

Don’t strike out with your slingBlade. If you do, then it’ll
get you. Move just when it’s coming down….”
I look down at the city the Fear Knight killed.
“Initiate Operation Tartarus. Give me a storm.”

***Lysander“You're going to die,” Pytha says.

It is easy to believe her. To be ingested by the military
machine is to see the last hidden gear of the world. All is
loud yet lonely, chaos yet order, functional yet dirty, fast yet
slow.
All is big. Except you.
I am thrust into an assembly line of muscled predators.
There is little jocularity amongst the lines of Golds as they
are given injections for Mercurian diseases, chemical
weapons, and ﬂight sickness followed by conditioning
enhancement cocktails. Then comes implantation of coms
and overwatch. Mission debrieﬁng and caloric ingestion.
Measurements for gear. Fitting for gear.
Without my name, I am no one. There goes another freshfaced sacriﬁce, the veterans think. No. They don’t even see
me. Their eyes are focused two hours from now. I do not
matter. I am chaﬀ.
Atlas’s countdown has begun.

“You’re going to perish. Die in a ball of ﬁre,” Pytha says
as one of the four Orange techs seals the greaves of the
pulseArmor around my shins. On either side, hundreds of
Golds iron up in ﬁtting bays. I didn’t even see this many
Peerless Scarred assemble for the defense of Luna against
the Rising. It was seen as somewhat of a farce. They don’t
underestimate the Reaper any longer. But it makes me
wonder: If the Golds are this scary, how bad has Darrow
become?
“Are you always this familiar with your superiors, pilot?”
Kalindora says from the wall. Atalantia has sent her to
watch over me in the Rain.
“No, domina.”
Kalindora does not buy the formality. “I recommend
reminding your retainer of her place, and yours.” She
glances at the techs. “This is not the Belt. Now, if you will
excuse me, I must tend to a pressing matter. If you lose
your way to the tubes, just follow the stench of big
humans.”
I’m sorry to see her go. Yet I’m pleased to have a moment
alone with Pytha.
“Bloody terrifying woman,” Pytha mutters after her.
“I think she is sad, rather. Wasn’t always…” Pytha
watches me with unease. “It will probably be safer for you
to stay in my quarters while I’m away,” I suggest. The
lowColors on the Annihilo are like drones. The mids, barely
better. There’s a hierarchical terror in the very air, one that
never existed in the Citadel.
“Can’t believe she’s making you do this,” Pytha mutters.
“I volunteered.”
“You little shit!”
“Hold,” I say to the Oranges crawling over me. They
don’t know who I am, but my caste and Kalindora’s
presence are enough for them to stop as if controlled by a

remote, and stand at the edge of the bay adjusting their
tools. I glance at the grizzled Golds ﬁtting up to either side
of me. “Lower your voice, Pytha.”
“You little shit,” she whispers. “If we were on the Archi, I
would slap you. What do you even know about Iron Rains?”
“My studies weren’t isolated to political theory.” It’s an
understatement.
“It’s not like a simulator.” Her voice has softened.
“And you glean this from your own extensive
experience?” I say as I ﬂex my leg to test the ﬁt of the
greaves.
“I’ve been in a Rain.”
I look up in confusion. “I thought you were expelled from
the Academy.”
“Snakeshit. Before I was a pirate, I was an equites.” Her
chin lifts in pride. “First Decurion, Twelfth Squadron of the
Bellona light-destroyer Dignitas.”
“Cassius said—”
“Cassius didn’t want you to know only warriors.” She
sighs. “This isn’t what he would have wanted for you. Ever
since he died, something’s woken up in you. A machine in
your brain. It’s not you. This isn’t you. Or have you just
always been desperate to be an Iron Gold?”
I nod slowly. “I won’t lie and say that’s not a small part of
it. But that’s not why I must do this. Gold hasn’t changed. If
anything, the sickness has metastasized. They uphold the
wrong virtues.” I lean forward and lower my voice. “If
Seraphina dies down there…if Atalantia betrays the Raa…if
Darrow wins…mankind will disintegrate.”
“So what? That’s not your burden.”
“Look around, Pytha. We teeter upon oblivion. Everything
humanity has built. All the sacriﬁces, the hierarchy, the
wars…for what? If Gold loses, the Republic will fracture
into kingdoms. The kingdoms to ﬁefdoms. The ﬁefdoms to

tribes. It will become a dark age of fractured planets and
war for three hundred years.”
“Three hundred years?”
I nod. “According to precedents, longer, but I’ve run the
simulation as many times and ways as I know how.” She
knows I don’t say that lightly. “You think this is about me. It
isn’t. Darrow thinks this is about good and evil. It isn’t. This
is about order and chaos. I have chosen my side. But to
have a voice, I must have a scar.”
“And you think Cassius was arrogant.” She looks at the
ground, shaking her head at some unspoken thought.
Eventually she looks up. “Fear.”
“I beg your pardon?”
“You think if you gain respect, you’ll be able to change
them? Nah. It’s about fear. You pretend Lorn au Arcos was
the picture of an Iron Gold because he was wise and
honorable.” She jams a thin thumb into her sternum. “We
know the truth. He boarded our ship. Arcos in a corridor
was death incarnate. You want to play the big game? Fine.
But you play to win. You make them fear you.”
“I am not that man.”
“Then you’re for the worms, dominus, and I’m out my last
friend.”
—
I kneel amongst killers. Seraphina to my left, Kalindora to
my right. All is silent but for the children as they perform
the Blood Benediction that has been carried down the
generations from Silenius to us.
The voices of children drift through the air.
“My son, my daughter, now that you bleed, you shall
know no fear.”

A dozen virgin girls with hair and eyes of milky white
walk barefoot through the kneeling legions. Iron daggers
are clutched in their hands.
“No defeat. Only victory.”
Blood drips from my hand as a girl drags the blade
across it.
“Your cowardice seeps from you.”
Ajax’s eyes are ﬁxed on the ﬂoor. His bleeding hand
clutched in a ﬁst. Clustered about him are his hungry
young friends and the grizzled Gold and Gray oﬀicers of the
double-strong Tenth Expeditionary Legion, the Terran-born
Iron Leopards.
“Your rage burns bright.”
I feel every tremor of my muscles, every kilogram of my
armor. But I do not feel the words.
“Rise, children of Gold, warriors of Earth, and take with
you your ancestors’ might.”
A chill spreads through me as one hundred thousand
legionnaires from the Grimmus lands of Africa and the
Americas come to their feet. Not a man or woman amongst
them has seen their home in over ﬁve years. They do not
know when they will see Earth again. But they know their
path home goes through the Free Legions.
Kalindora moans as Ajax activates his gravBoots and
articulates himself into the air. “Here he goes again.”
In his storm armor, with its thunderhead shoulders, Ajax
looks like Jupiter reborn with snowy teeth and inky skin. He
bathes in the roars of his men as can only a man who thinks
himself entitled to worship, yet earned it anyway.
Beside me, I see envy creep over Seraphina’s face.
I feel the human ﬂaw in myself, but I resist its dark
waters, and allow myself to bathe in my friend’s risen
stature.

He is young wrath manifest.
“My brothers! My sisters! My Iron Leopards! The battle
today is to decide the fate of our Society. Whether we cave
to the tide of anarchy, the despoiling mob!” He points his
arm. “Or whether we carve our own destiny and build a
second Age of Order upon the bodies of the slave horde. We
have shattered their ﬂeet! But soon more ships will come
from their infernal, restless factories to rescue the Slave
King and his horde. When they come, what will they ﬁnd?”
“Ash,” the legion booms.
The skin on Seraphina’s neck prickles with goosebumps.
“Sevro au Barca, Orion xe Aquarii, Cadus Harnassus,
Thraxa au Telemanus, Alexandar au Arcos, Felix au Daan,
Colloway xe Char, Darrow of Lykos!” Kalindora ﬁngers the
ﬂame-etched hilt of her razor. “These are wanted lives!
Bring them to me! Bring them to me! Bring them to me!”
The legions roar and Ajax’s dark face splits into a
death’s-head smile.
A golem of a Gold man takes over. He sighs his simian
shoulders back and stomps before the cadres of elite Gold
knights, smiling like a bulldog chewing a hornet.
“We are Legio X Pardus! We are the vanguard! Ours is a
place of honor! Ante mortem!” he bellows to the Golds.
“Gloria!” they roar.
He wheels on the Grays. “Ante mortem!”
“Gloria!”
He turns to the Obsidians. “Ante mortem!”
“GLORIA!”
Ajax lands beside the golem. With the man at his hip, he
sways over to his clustering oﬀicers. They are a crusty,
tight-knit breed. Seraphina and I are total outsiders.
Kalindora conditionally so. They give us no room near the

front, except for Kalindora. She declines and stays at my
side.
“You all know our objective. We’re to lend rear-guard
support to the Votum as they press for Tyche from the east.
I’m here to tell you that’s all bullshit. Scorpio can fuck oﬀ
to Tyche on his own.” Through armored shoulders, I see
Ajax grin. “We’re going to take Heliopolis, my goodmen.”
There are murmurs of excitement. But not from me.
Instead I feel a sinking disappointment. Scorpio au Votum
was right. Atalantia does want his planet. Or parts of it.
Seraphina glances my way with a sneer.
“So this is how Atalantia treats her allies.”
“Heliopolis is their lone fallback bastion in the south. We
take it, they’re trapped in the desert.” And Atalantia gets
the coveted factories and the mines of the south. “Now, the
Yellows are squawking about weather, but it’s Mercury, and
our timetable is set in stone. So it may get choppy. Any
questions?”
Kalindora raises her voice. “Atalantia promised Scorpio
—”
“When Atalantia has Heliopolis, she won’t need to
promise Scorpio anything,” Ajax says. “Since you are sworn
to her, you should welcome that future, Love Knight.”
Kalindora stares gloomily ahead.
Meanwhile the monstrous man beside Ajax glares over at
me through slitted eyes. “Who the fuck are you?” Three of
his front teeth are missing. That is the least of the cosmetic
damage. “That’s expensive armor for a Pixie wastrel.”
“Olympic Knight business,” Kalindora replies.
The big man wheels on Seraphina. “Who the fuck is
she?”
“Olympic Knight business, Seneca,” Kalindora says.
He does not look like a Seneca. He looks like a human
boar. He winks at Kalindora. “Oy, Love. Figure Reaper will

be anything but atoms before we get down there?”
“To avoid you, Seneca, I believe he just might.”
The beast chuckles and Ajax returns to his brief.
“Seneca au Cern, Ajax’s Dux,” Kalindora whispers after I
quietly inquire about the man. His right hand of authority,
then. Probably started as a bodyguard. They often
do.“Unremarkable, except when he goes Blood Red.” The
term is unfamiliar. “Radio code for a Red suicide wave.”
She looks back to Ajax. “It’s really not like anything you’ve
ever seen.”
Ajax concludes his brief. “To your shells, goodmen. We
have termites to kill.”
As Ajax and I walk to the starShell ladders with Kalindora
shadowing from behind, he glances at her in irritation, then
clasps my shoulder.
“This is what you’ve been missing, little brother. The
greatest show ever staged. But you look like you’re about
to fall asleep. Not nervous, are you?” He leans forward. “Or
are you already in that Brain’s Hole?”
“The Mind’s Eye,” I correct. He knows what it’s called.
“And no, not yet.”
He laughs. “Stick close down there. If we get separated,
try to link up. If you hear wolves, ﬁnd me. It’s no jest. Only
a legion accompanying the Slave King is permitted the
howl. If you hear it, he’s coming. I’ve seen that man carve
through a platoon of Ash Guard like a shark through tuna.
You’ll want me there.”
“Will he be in Heliopolis?”
“No,” he says in disappointment. “But fate is not without
a sense of humor. Where the din of battle is the loudest, he
will come. And today I plan on making such noise.” He
steps close to me. “We will avenge our family together, then
sort the rest of this shit out. Hear?”
“Thank you,” I say. “For letting me—”

He smacks my head. “You’re not forgiven yet, Pixie. But
what you do today will make them forget all the rest. Let’s
have you return properly.” He puts his head to mine, as we
did as children before walking the Line. “The blood of
giants ﬁlls our veins: honor the valiant dead with your
deeds.”
“Honor the living with your might,” I recite.
He departs.
Seraphina stands at the foot of her own ladder, eclipsed
by her Grimmus-painted starShell. Techs mill around its
feet making last-minute adjustments. She spits on the
death’s-head sigil and examines the traction claws on the
starShell.
“Good fortune down there,” I say to her.
She checks the hydraulics in the knees. “Keep your
fortune. Every scar I have earned has led me here. This war
is my destiny.” She turns. “Cheer up, gahja. The courage of
a soldier is heightened by her knowledge of her
profession.” She looks me up and down. “Go do your duty.”
I suspected it before, but I feel it now as I see the
excitement on her face as she turns back to the war
machine.
She didn’t betray her father because she loves her
mother. There was another, hidden reason, which was the
source of the guilt I saw in her eyes as she watched
Romulus walk to his death. It is the source of the anger she
feels toward him, toward me. Anger that should be for
herself, because deep down she knows that it wasn’t loyalty
to the Rim or her mother that incited her to ferry evidence
of Darrow’s crimes against the Rim back to the council.
It was her hunger for war.
Now, after weeks of starvation, she is about to be fed.

***DarrowThe Fear Knight is a sadist.

Unlike the vain Golds of the Core, he appreciates
guerrilla warfare and its eﬀect on armies. Though I met
him only once in my days of service to Nero, I saw enough
in him to know he put no stock in glory. When I squeezed
his hand, eager to impress my strength on what then would
have been a superior of stratospheric heights, he let his go
limp. It embarrassed me. Little did I know then that the
wan, plain-dressed man would someday skin, melt,
castrate, rape, blind, and mutilate my legionnaires by the
thousands.
Atlas’s reputation was meager before the start of the
Solar War. He was known primarily for three things: His
patronage of the Great Library of Delphi. His inglorious
position as a ward of the Sovereign. And his abrupt
disappearance, one that was clariﬁed when he returned
after the fall of Earth from nearly a decade of banishment
ﬁghting threats at the edge of the system.

Born after the failed First Moon Lord’s Rebellion, he was
raised on Io with his more famous brother, Romulus. When
he turned ten, his parents said their farewells and sent him
to Luna to live in the court of the Sovereign as yet another
noble hostage to ensure the Rim’s obedience.
Amongst the Core Golds he was privileged and educated,
yet derided for being the spawn of a traitor. It was there he
met Atalantia, and there that Octavia made him an
extension of her will, turning him against his traitor family
and planting the seeds that would make him into the man
behind the Pale Mask. Of all my enemies, I loathe him the
most.
We stand before his newest forest of corpses.
Bodies hang impaled on vertical poles. There are more
than two hundred. Each with the Fear brand on their bare
chests—a ﬂeshy wound in the shape of a child’s face ringed
with hair of serpents.
A grisly promenade strewn with Republic ﬂags leads
through the impaled bodies to Angelia. The white fabric of
the ﬂags is tattered and fouled with boot prints and blood.
It will be booby-trapped.
I look at the bodies, at their faces. This is why I left Luna.
Those glossy peacocks in the Senate read our reports. But
the further you are away from it, the more war reads like
arithmetic, and past that it reads like ﬁction, past that it’s
just an annoying video on your info stream. How could they
possibly imagine the anguish on the faces of the dead? How
could the mob in the street demanding handouts ever know
on a sensory level that when a human rots, it isn’t just the
skin that stinks, but the intestines, the stomach, the liver?
How could they know that weird tremble of the soul
when you realize there is no civilization? There’s just a lock
on a box. And inside the box is this. Virginia wanted me to
reason with the senators. What common language would

we speak, I wonder, when they have not seen inside the box
and I am its lock?
It drives me fucking mad that they refuse to understand
how sick and dogged and obsessed with our destruction
our enemies are. Yet they live in a fantasy built on the
bodies of my friends.
The chatter of the carrion birds serrates the air, along
with the cries of the dying. Of the impaled soldiers, many
still live, writhing like worms on a hook. Our four Obsidians
stare up at the bodies and make a sign to their gods.
The horror reaches deepest into the heart of Alexandar
and pulls him forward. “Arcos, heels down,” I bark.
He stops but turns to me, face ghostly vacant. “They are
still alive…”
“And they’re all booby-trapped,” I say, though he knows
it. Rhonna swallows as she watches Alexandar blink at the
result of his error. Fall asleep in the Ladon, you wake up to
this.
I walk up to him. “We all carry weight. I need you to
carry this. Can you?”
The eyes of his grandfather blink back at me as the
impaled cry for help. “Yes, sir.”
“Goodman.”
I turn back to the Howlers. They stand in a ragged line.
Colloway brings the Necromancer in for ﬁre support. “It’s
theatrics. He’s buying time to distract us from his
objective,” I tell them. “We can’t help them. Go to air. Packs
of three. Use your thermals and sensors to scan for traps.
Walk fast but soft. And for Jove’s sake keep your chrome in.
I need your eyes.”
I designate the teams to search potential targets. Dust
billows as nearly two score of Howlers jolt upward over
their writhing comrades to disperse through the city.

I wait behind with Thraxa and Felix. I raise my voice so
the impaled can hear me.
“How many of you saw Gorgons around your feet? Raise
your right hand.” A sea of right hands. Some lie and keep
theirs down. Could be a false positive. Atlas might have
booby-trapped none of them. Or all of them. “You may be
booby-trapped,” I say. “Medships are on the way. Hold out
for them, and soon it’ll be six weeks of pretty medici and
ice frizeé. We’ll be back.”
I cast a dour look to Thraxa and Felix and we lift oﬀ for
the city’s communications center. I shoot a hole in the
bronze dome with my pulseFist, scan, and drop through to
the marble ﬂoor.
As sunlight washes in through the open door, we see
them. Bodies strewn on the ﬂoor. Ripped apart and chewed
up. Heads caved in with all manner of improvised weapons.
Bodies chewed upon as if by animals. Atlas didn’t do this.
They butchered one another. The features of the dead are
mottled and monstrously warped by some pathogen.
Gods, what did Atalantia’s warlocks cook up now?
They were collaborator civilians we relocated to Angelia,
far from any military facility. Put them out of harm’s way, I
said. If Sevro had been there, he would have laughed.
“Where do you put a chickenshit oﬀicer if you need him to
expire?” he once asked me. “Out of harm’s way!”
Pax was out of harm’s way too.
“You ever seen anything like this?” I ask Thraxa.
She shakes her head. “Maybe he was testing a new
bioweapon.”
“There are easier ways.” I bark at my medici to take a
sample and evac to Necromancer for transmission. Central
Command needs to know. I start to laugh as I realize the
game. “It’s all to buy time. Puzzles and pain.” I look
around. The facts don’t add up. What is he buying time for?

We could get an airdrop and catch up to him, so it wasn’t to
extend his lead. Eleusis was ripe for the picking. How does
this side trip change the board? Thunder peels to the north.
My storm is slowly forming.
“Howler One,” Alexandar says in my ear com. “We’ve got
something at the ore reﬁnery.”
—
Alexandar, Rhonna, and several Howlers are gathered in
the control room of the city’s ore reﬁnery when Thraxa and
I join them. Disabled spidermines and microwave bombs lie
on a table.
Marbles, our Green slicer, and Clown’s best friend, is
jacked into the central computer’s input port. A worn black
hardwire runs from the computer’s port to a small port on
his right temple. His eyes roll back in his head as he travels
through a virtual landscape. His ﬁngers tap on the plastic
chair. After a moment, he sighs. His dry lips smack together
and he reverts.
“Sumn nastyfoul darkpart,” he says in staccato silicon
slang, skipping past the words that make sentences
intelligible to us carbon bodies so that it sounds like his
mouth is full of marbles. “Rickety roads, slipped package
uranium dense, destinations easy as 01100001 01100010
01100011.” He stutters the numbers out like a garment
needle.
“Alexandar, translate.”
Quick with low and mid tongues, Alexandar steps
forward.
“No,” Marbles says, holding up a bony ﬁnger. The dark
circles under his eyes war with his sunburn. “I do this time.
See, boss, like this. Angelia dustyass worktown. Systems all
in a web, redundancy protocol to keep hard grip. We cut
web in Rain. Didn’t cut shadow web.”

“There are latent systems?” Alexandar asks, ﬁrst to
understand. “Old hardlines?”
“Hardlines.” Thraxa looks amused. “What dullard missed
—”
“Quiet,” I snap. “Marbles, you telling me the mining
cities are still connected?”
“Only some. Old system. Someone slagged it good,
missed shadow somehow. Stupid analog, mostlike.
Hardlines under the pan.”
“So he sent a command to other mining cities via this
console,” I clarify.
“Yah.”
“What did he send?” Thraxa asks.
“Nulls. Dunno. Mad encryption. Got slicers with Gorgons,
right? Slick pricks.” He taps his head. “Give this silicon a
week, plus three clicks for sleep, and I got your answer.”
There is only one message worth sending to the other
cities. My gut sinks. Rhonna pieces it together. “Could they
send signals to the other reactors?”
“Give me diagnostics on the mine’s reactor,” Thraxa says.
Marbles turns to the computer just as I jerk the hardwire
away from him. As soon as he checked the reactor, I’ve no
doubt a neurological attack would fry his brain to jelly. Trap
after trap after trap.
“He’s going to overload this reactor and any connected
by hardwire,” I explain, and head for the door. “It’s going
thermal.” Angelia doesn’t matter, but the cities it’s
hardwired to will. Those reactors are what fuel our shield
chain. I open my general frequency. “All Howlers, evacuate
the city. Buddy ﬂights if you don’t got boots. Colloway,
bring the Necro for air hook.”
By the time I make it out the door of the reﬁnery, half the
Howlers are already airborne. Those with gravBoots lock
the magnetic buddy belts around their waists to the

Howlers without them. They take oﬀ. Rhonna and Thraxa
are the last pair away. Alexandar waits for me. I turn
around so he can link the metal coupling at his waist to the
one at my tailbone. The magnets snap together. He wraps
his arms around my shoulders and pats my chest.
I lift oﬀ hard from the ground, my gut wrenching as the
boots thrust us up till we’re free of the city. Overhead,
Colloway is scooping Howlers into his shuttle’s open
garage. Alexandar and I land smoothly and decouple. I look
down at the city and shout for Colloway to get us clear.
The logic is sinister.
That forest of bodies and biological weapons were meant
to bring medical and science teams. To slow us down as we
patched our wounded and scratched our heads, focusing on
the small game instead of the grand stage.
The ﬁrst explosion at Angelia’s nuclear power plant,
caused by the meltdown of its reactor, is not like that of an
atomic warhead. It stutters outward from the domed
building, ﬁrst as steam, then as ﬁre, lifting the roof of the
complex and engulﬁng the city in a rolling wave. Those
impaled soldiers disappear in a cloud, their ﬂesh melted
from their bones by the steam, and the rest consumed by
the slow rippling tide of ﬁre.
I will see you in the Vale, brothers.
I patch in to Central Command in Tyche. Panic creeps
into the professional clip of oﬀicers as they report multiple
reactor explosions around the Waste of Ladon, stretching
all the way to the Petasos Peninsula and the whole of the
Plains of Caduceus. Six cities have lost power. More will
follow in a chain reaction. Without power, the whole
northern shield chain will fall. I wanted a window, but Atlas
just kicked in the sky.
Atalantia is coming.
“Someone betrayed us,” Thraxa growls.

Or Atalantia is smarter than her father.
“How many generators will fall?” I ask Thraxa. She
stares at Marbles’s information readout and makes a
mental calculation. Too slow. I toss it to Alex. He barely
blinks before he has an answer.
“It’ll be everything north of Erebos, except Red Reach
and Tyche. Their domes are locally powered. They’ll hold.”
Heliopolis is safe, then. Still protected south of Erebos.
Which means the escape route through Tyche is viable if
Tyche holds. But six million men will be cut oﬀ from the
city by bombardment. How do I get them back?
“By the Vale itself…” someone whispers.
The Howlers watch in despair out the back of the shuttle
as the translucent shield that protected us from the might
of the Gold Armada ﬂickers and then disappears one panel
at a time until the whole northern sky is naked to the
armada above.
My com pings with incoming transmissions. Rhonna
ﬁelds a call. “Harnassus requests orders of retreat.”
Thraxa steps between me and the other aides ﬁelding
calls. “Let him think.”
In her shadow, I watch the sky. Flashes in orbit. Friction
trails scar the blue horizon. The ﬁrst bombs begin to fall.
The vanguard legions will come soon after. Bloody
Peerless cohorts in fast boots and starShells, dropships
packed with veteran Gray shock troops, Obsidian
slaveknights stoked to mind-melting bloodfrenzy by the
drugs of their masters, tanks, titans, esoteric war
machines, the full might of a militarized empire out for
revenge.
We are out of position. Our mobility will be frozen by
bombardment. Legions and static defenses erased by
atomics. Those who don’t die will be hopelessly shattered
and fragmented. Then Atalantia’s forces will ﬂank and

encircle the marooned remains of my army before we can
attempt a breakout.
There is only one option, and it isn’t retreat.
“Thraxa.” She steps up to me. “We must take the punch.”
“Can we?”
“Yes. Atalantia needs Mercury. She won’t nuke the
Children cities. Red Reach and Tyche are independent of
the shield chain. Their domes will hold. And soon we’ll have
the storm—”
“It will take hours for the—”
“I started the engines two hours ago.”
She blinks in surprise. “And the First Army? They won’t
make it to the cover of Red Reach.”
It comes out in a cold rattling of sentences. “Then I’ll
bring them a shield. Atalantia will likely land south of Pan
with at least a third of their army. She’ll bottle up the
Children and take the cities one by one, trapping our
garrisons. If we abandon the cities and mass the garrisons
from the Children at Kydon, we can sally to Pan and make
an oblique front. It won’t hold, but if we hit them from
behind with the Second Army out of Red Reach and drive
them toward the sea, we can hurt her while the First Army
clears a route to Tyche from the north.” I grip her shoulder.
“Take all six starShells. Go to Kydon and lead the tank
legions.”
“You need the starShells.”
“You need them more. I’ll ﬁnd a skyhook.” I look at the
darkening sky. “You’ll have cover soon. Hold, and I’ll gut
them from the southwest, then we haul ass to Tyche
together. A double atomic burst will signal my coming. Go.”
Stalwart Thraxa, spine of the infantry, favorite of her
father, knows I send her into the teeth of the enemy. She
smiles at me nonetheless. “Hail Reaper.”
“Hail Telemanus.”

She rushes for the starShell spitTube, taking ﬁve of her
Golds.
“Sevro, call Harnassus…” I turn and ﬁnd Rhonna at my
shoulder instead of my trusted shadow. She looks like I’ve
slapped her. “Rhonna, tell him to send reinforcements to
Tyche via the loop. I want every single reserve ripper in the
air and bound for the plains. Interdiction protocol. If they
don’t take out some of those missiles, we’re done. Go.” It
will leave Heliopolis naked, but she isn’t their target.
“Alex—” He doesn’t respond. His eyes are ﬁxed on the
bombs that already race down through the atmosphere.
This is my fault, he will think. I actually do slap him.
His eyes light up in anger.
“Contact Feranis. Tell her to expect heavy mechanized
assault from the northwest from landfall on the Talarian
Peninsula. She’ll have to hold Tyche without the Morning
Star. I need Star and the Drachenjäger cohorts at…” I
glance at the map.
He intuits my purpose. “Sector Seventeen.”
I nod. “And call your cousin, tell him to meet us at
Skyhook Eleven. I’ll ride with the Arcosians today.” He
rushes to the communications room as I hail Orion. Her
bright eyes are glazed. She’s in the synaptic drift with the
storm.
“How are your storm pilots holding up?”
“Handling…the ﬂow. There have been spikes, but…within
range.”
“How long till electronic interference?”
“Ten minutes.”
“Can you slow it to twenty?”
“We will try. Must concentrate now.”
I click out. The rest of the Howlers haven’t moved. They
watch the friction trails, a sense of doom upon them.

“You waiting for a formal invitation from the Fury? Asses
to the armory. Iron up.” Finally, they move. I shout up the
corridor to my pilot. “Colloway! Get me to my army.”
The ship accelerates, nearly knocking me from my feet.
Steadying myself, I take the com oﬀ the wall and patch my
signal into the powerful transmitters on Tyche to speak to
my army while I still can.
“This is Reaper. Broken Sky. Repeat, Broken Sky. The
enemy has breached the northern shields. Missiles are
already en route. Expect heavy bombardment of north
Helios and coms blackout presently. Operation Voyager
Cloak is canceled. All oﬀicers, open your blackpacks.
Keyword: hazard bedlam.”
Across Helios, thousands of low-ranking oﬀicers, from
infantry centurions to ripWing squadron captains, will be
opening metal canisters to receive brieﬁngs on Operation
Tartarus and the conditions they will soon face.
“Operation Tartarus is now live. Second Army, abandon
your positions and rally at Red Reach. First Army and all
other Cloak units, rally at Sector Seventeen. Cover is
inbound. Third Army hold in the Children until the Rain
comes, then rally to Kydon. Legate Telemanus is on her
way.”
About to bark out a curt farewell, I pause, seeing that
none of my Howlers have moved. The roughest veterans of
a generation stare at me, knowing all is lost. Eight million
more are out there in the desert, mountains, coastal
jungles, without shields. They need more than orders.
I rasp into the com.
“Brothers, sisters. Atalantia has come for our lives. She
thinks we wait looking at the sky for rescue, that fear has
made a home in our hearts. She thinks we have forgotten
ourselves. But I have not forgotten what we are. We fought
in the ruins of Luna. On the plains and oceans of Earth. In

the mountains and the tunnels of Mars. Whatever soil we
have stood upon, we have freed. We are not marooned
refugees waiting for rescue. We are not prisoners waiting
for chains. We are the Free Legions. And today we become
the rock they break upon. All legions, prepare for Rain.”
Then the horizon stutters with white light, and the
mushrooms grow.

***Lysander“Let fall the Rain.”

The disembodied voice of Atalantia comes through the
communications nodes secured on my auditory canals. Like
a conductor’s baton, it sweeps the music into motion.
Thumpthumpthumpthumpthump, go the spitTubes.
My world turns and my starShell is ingested into the
honeycomb of the wall. Outside the shell’s facial shield, the
throat of the spitTube pulses with red light.
Thumpthumpthumpthumpthump. Another hundred men.
When falls the Rain, be brave. Be brave, my grandfather
said.
I do not feel brave. I am not the center of this symphony.
No one even cares I’m here.
Where is the immortal majesty the poets promised me?
Where is the stern will my ancestors preached to their
children?

It was just an illusion conjured by fools who never left
their libraries, or by agents of necessity.
This is the Noble Lie.
Every frayed nerve, every quaking cell, screams in
horror, urging me to crawl out of the tube, to escape this
insanity. Is a man a coward if he realizes that bravery is
just a myth the old tell the young so they line up for the
meatgrinder?
My ﬁrst toy was a wooden sword.
Adults think it adorable.
“Better dead than a coward,” Aja would say when a
member of the Palatine would fall in combat on some far-oﬀ
sphere. Better rotting meat for worms than the butt of a
passing joke or an embarrassment to the beloved dead.
What hilarious things we do for people who will never know
we did them.
I have not used the Mind’s Eye since the Rim. It makes
me feel like my grandmother’s puppet. But in my fear, I
have nothing else on which to rely.
“Fear is the torrent,” I whisper. “Fear is the torrent. Fear
is the torrent.”
I am not here. I am no physical being.
Electricity tethered to carbon. I am a pattern.
And so is the world.
With that acceptance, I release a measured breath, and
sink molecule by molecule into the Mind’s Eye.
I see Octavia as if she were before me.
She sits in her Ocular Sphere. The glass walls of the
room are open and the city laid out beneath her. Her eyes
look down at the Oracle on my wrist, its stinger waving.
“Do not let fear touch you,” she whispers. The intricate
creases in her face are like the spiderweb in the high
corner of the room. “Fear is the torrent. The raging river.

To ﬁght it is to break and drown. But to stand astride it is
to see it, feel it, and use its course for your own whims.
Now, Lysander, I want you to lie to me, if you can….”
The memory sputters, invaded by another.
Curtains waver like guttering candle ﬂames. I’m walking
down a hall toward a black door etched with a single
phrase. Music tinkles behind the door. There is laughter.
But as I reach forward with my little hand to push it open, I
am swallowed by shadows.
The spiderweb emerges from the shadows. A ﬂy
struggles to escape, but with each strain entangles himself
further.
“Fear is the torrent,” I rasp with Octavia. “Fear is the
torrent.”
Her face is bathed green.
I surge forward.
Urine streams into the catheter. My stomach drops to my
heels. My vision ﬂickers; a ball of vomit catches halfway up
my esophagus as blackness crawls at the corner of my
sight. By the time I remember to breathe, the Annihilo is
already twenty kilometers behind me. My gut swirls again
and I cough up bile. It sprays, murky brown, into a plastic
catch over my mouth.
Around me, my suit whirs and ﬂashes with the nonverbal
communication between Blue pilots and Gold ﬂight leaders.
Clipped commands crisscross over the com. I narrow my
mind’s pupil to constrict the inﬂux of information and
collate in the background as I slip into the ﬂight ﬂow
etched into me by Midnight School aviators.
My mind runs through a collection of instruction
sequences, eyes siphoning and collecting data till I’ve
assured myself and Overwatch, the maintenance support
brigade on the Annihilo, that my systems are nominal.
Only then do I look up and gape at the grandeur.

The invasion sweeps along in its silent song.
Ahead, the silhouette of Ajax’s starShell is dark against
the nightside of the onrushing planet. It ﬂickers like white
phosphorus as the particle cannons of the Annihilo and her
gunships lance diagonally across the horizon and toward
the breach.
The energy beams illuminate streams of starShells all
around me. Hundreds of men in metal. And yet they form
little more than a tributary of the great ﬂooding river
gushing from the ﬂeets of the Two Hundred lesser houses,
and giants Grimmus, Falthe, Carthii, and Votum.
The vanguard of our force falls, uncontested.
The ships become fainter than needles in the darkness
behind. The planet grows. Its night face is black, the
continents laid out like tatters of a death shroud trimmed in
gold by city lights along the coasts. Its North Pole wears a
mutating crown of electric green aurora.
As we pass into the mesosphere, we cross the planet’s
meridian, from night to day. A golden bow of sunlight
blazes around the planet as if it were Apollo’s own, and we
the children of Hyperion, racing our chariots home. For a
moment, it makes me miss that far-oﬀ city and the home I
haven’t seen for half a life.
The day face of the world reveals itself.
Beneath the faint shimmer of Darrow’s shifting
tropospheric shields are small, icy poles, strings of
mountain ranges. Temperate alpine elevations characterize
the north, jungles stretch to the south. Between them lies a
mountain-studded equatorial desert.
The infamous Ladon. Eater of armies.
The infant typhoon detailed in the mission data report
does not look too menacing. It forms a thin spiral cloud
layer over the Sycorax Sea.

There is time enough to be lost in the majesty, and to
remember nature did not provide this with her careless
hand. My race of mortals carved this paradise from
irradiated rock and violent gas by channeling the greatest
virtues of all men in common cause.
A patriotic pride that I did not know I possessed ﬁlls me.
The same blood ﬂows through my veins as the man who
sent the last of the Lovelock engines and Storm Gods here.
But this zeal evaporates as soon as I realize I do not belong
to the age of giants who made this, but to a smaller,
meaner age where men think war the height of human
endeavor.
I laugh at the cosmic joke. Only humanity could grasp the
stars and then let them slip through its ﬁngers for the
pettiness in its heart.
But I feel hope. That pettiness deﬁned my grandmother’s
age. It may yet not deﬁne ours.
“Fine launch, goodmen. I trust everyone kept breakfasts
down dinners up,” Ajax says convivially. There’s a chorus of
laughter, and highLingo rebarbs. Do they really love this?
What creatures could be so at ease here and now? Am I
even the same species?
“Heliopolis will still be covered by the southern shield
chain. We must penetrate via the breach and ﬂy south.
Passing coordinates.” The trajectory data appears on my
display. His voice becomes solemn as he delivers the
Grimmus creed. “Should the Void take you, celebrate, my
friends. For before death, there was glory. Prepare for
atmospheric entry.”
I wait for him to hail my private channel. But when the
light blinks, it’s Kalindora, not Ajax.
“Don’t burn your main thrusters till we go horizontal. Let
gravity do the work, not your generator. Simulators
underrepresent drag. And don’t activate your pulseShield

till breach. No telling when we’ll get a recharge. Last thing
you want is your suit dying in a ﬁreﬁght.”
Friction heat glows ahead of me as the ﬁrst starShells
begin their descent. I see Atalantia’s Ash Legion
descending to our left.
The planet resists my entry. The starShell bucks as it
enters with enough kinetic energy to compress the air in
front of me and turn it into a furnace. A brittle layer of
thermal soak tiles in the entry carapace absorbs the heat
and sheds away. All around, scores of starShells burst from
carapaces winnowed by friction to scream like wrathful
locusts down into the blue sky.
Wind and engines roar outside my shell as I join them.
We do not come under ﬁre. The Republic’s shields that
protect them from orbital bombardment also prevent them
from contesting our descent. They shimmer ﬁfty kilometers
below, only eight kilometers above the planet’s surface.
Atalantia parts from us, heading to the northernmost part
of the breach as we head to the southernmost.
“Time to breach, twenty seconds,” Ajax intones as we
pass over a mountain range toward the Ladon.
The horizon toward which we ﬂy is a holocaust of
artillery. The concentrated ﬁrepower of the Ash Armada
bludgeons the thousand-kilometer-wide breach.
Particle beams divide reality. Mushrooms bloom on the
surface.
In all the war, no one has used more atomics than this. I
am horriﬁed. The atomics drop on depopulated zones, but
the fallout will kill thousands before it is scrubbed and
meds distributed. Maybe more.
Impossibly, the Republic ﬁres back. Particle beams lance
up from the breach at straﬁng orbital torchShips and highaltitude corvette gunships. Guided missiles chase bombers
and send them spiraling down to crash into the southern

shields like skipping stones. Atomics ﬂash pale white in the
troposphere. A beam connects with a Bellona corvette.
Light ripples as the shield overloads and a second beam
carves through the helm of the ship.
Thirty million life threads interweave, some carrying on,
others clipped short.
It is so horrible.
“Be a giant,” Ajax said.
How, in all this?
Strategists, I understand. But warriors…I thought I did
until now. The insidious arithmetic becomes apparent of
how overwhelmingly visionary warriors like Darrow, the
Minotaur, and Atlas must be to be able to shift the face of a
battle once it’s already begun.
“TOB ten.”
We’re over the desert now, skimming the shield dome.
A gap in the artillery barrage opens as orbital ships
redirect their guns to create a hellmouth—a corridor of
protective ﬁre. A second later, the ﬁrst century of
starShells from a Carthii destroyer enters the hellmouth
and disappears into the breach. RipWings follow. The
century after them disintegrates as a particle beam slashes
up from the mountains.
“Breach,” Ajax says.
Our century streams into a hellmouth.
My senses overload.
Munitions blaze around us, blinding ﬂashes, metal
colliding and vaporizing. But we outrace the sounds of the
explosions we see, only to cross into the rippling sound
waves of prior explosions. I lose Ajax in the mayhem.
Airburst shells keen and explode to disperse harpies—ﬁstsized drones packed with EMP or explosive charges. I ﬁre
my left shoulder cannon at a swarm of them. A dozen slam

into a ripWing. The engines die and it careens out of the
hellmouth into a friendly artillery shell.
Then I’m through.
“Fracture,” Ajax orders. The legion’s centuries splinter
into hundreds of decades. I struggle to match their
precision, nearly clipping Ajax’s heels as I follow him.
Kalindora and Seraphina fall in behind me as we dive
toward the jagged Hesperides range. “Clear your peaks.
Leave the air to the rippers.” The com clicks as he switches
channels to our decade. “Decade One, we’re on our own.
Head north by—”
Seraphina’s voice cuts him oﬀ. “E spike. Shatter.”
My instruments register the electrical spike of railguns
charging. Out of the corner of my eye, a pinprick of purple
light ﬂashes on a mountain ridge.
I ﬁre my left shoulder thruster and shoot out of formation
as a blur of dense metal whips through now-empty air. Four
hundred slugs follow the ﬁrst in three seconds. A starShell
disappears in a shower of debris. I can’t tell whose. Then
Seraphina’s rockets slam into the gun installation and
bloom over shielding as it continues to ﬁre, unaﬀected.
I activate my targeting laser, but before I can light the
installation up, Kalindora’s illuminates it. An orbital strike
falls. A beam of white light that would ﬂashblind the naked
eye cleaves the mountain peak like a hunk of cheese.
“Good spot, for a Moonie. Compliments on the lighting,
Annihilo,” Ajax says. “Decade One, cluster on me. We’ve a
mountain range to clear.” He lights up my personal
channel. “How’s the war, little brother?”
I struggle to reply. “Fast.”
He laughs. “Tune down your inertial dampeners. It’ll help
you feel the maneuvers. You’re ﬂying that masterpiece like
it’s a cosmosHauler. You quite nearly clipped my heels.
Twice.”

“Apologies. It’s touchier than the sims.”
“Touchier than the sims. Ha! We’ll make a Peerless out of
you yet. Now, belly down, goodman. Welcome party of
aerial termites inbound.”

***Darrow
THE world has become a garden for
mushrooms. They bloom on the bruised horizon, swelling
two hundred kilometers high, dwarﬁng the mountains.
Shockwave after shockwave, diﬀused by distance, rack the
Necromancer as we streak north to get me back to Red
Reach base and the heart of my northern armies.
With the shields down, we will be encircled. We must
prepare to break out in the thin slip of time between
bombardment and landfall. If we survive the bombardment.
Desert sand streams underneath the shuttle. Fortiﬁed
mining cities disappear in ﬂashes of white light. Great
desert gun emplacements with enough ﬁrepower to take
down a torchShip stream fury into the sky, only to be
turned into glass by pillars of light hotter than the sun.
Colloway is silent and still wearing his synaptic halo. The
ovular pilot’s chair bathes the dark man in blue light,
making the ﬁghter ace look an elﬁn boy half his age.
Y ARMY DIES.

Untethered from his body, he is the ship and the ship is
him.
“Come on, Midnight,” I whisper.
“Almighty, give me space,” the ship replies dreamily.
“This party makes Ilium look like a Thermic sailing race. Oh
my. Incoming slags. I count…Can’t be right. Instruments
are frazzed.” A pause. “Never mind. It is six hundred.”
“Kilometers?”
“RipWings.”
Shit.
In the wake of the ﬁrst atomic barrage, the ﬁrst river of
enemy ripWings descend. Fifty squadrons stream down
against the backdrop of a mushroom cloud like a school of
piranha. Missiles stream from their bellies, cascading down
on gun batteries and tank formations. Three squadrons
peel oﬀ to engage us.
“I hope everyone relished their breakfast. You’ll see it
again soon.”
My boots lock to the deck. My gut jerks as we spin in a
never-ending corkscrew. I am helpless behind Colloway,
despite my blood-red pulseArmor and all its armaments.
Only the storm can stop what comes from the sky, and it is
still in its infancy.
You could run a war from the Necromancer, survive
almost any magnitude of EMP, outrace even a torchShip.
But in atmosphere, she’s a big boat, and the ripWings gain
on us fast.
I hail Harnassus for LongMalice support and give him
coordinates. Over the static, I can barely hear his
aﬀirmative. In the Hesperides range, hundreds of klicks to
the southwest, under the cover of our intact southern
shield chain, ﬁfty-meter guns will swivel on their
gyroscopes. Colloway thumbs-up to show he heard me.

My body leans sideways as he puts us into a steep climb,
straight at the enemy squadrons. As missiles leap from the
ripWings, Colloway barrel-rolls sideways and slams us into
a nosedive. The missiles blink behind us, some slithering oﬀ
to follow our countermeasure drones. The rest scream
after, undistracted. The desert pan races up to meet us. A
thousand meters. Five hundred. One hundred. At ﬁfty,
Colloway activates the launch thrusters and the ship
ricochets parallel to the ground like a skipped stone. My
head jerks forward, chin slamming into the metal of my
breastplate. I see stars and hear the concussion through
the ship as the missiles plow into the ground. Those that
follow are mowed down by Colloway’s rear railguns.
There are no cheers from the garage.
Colloway redirects toward Harnassus’s ﬁring solution.
Harnassus sends us a countdown. At three, we slip past the
killzone. The enemy squadrons scream behind, spewing
railgun ﬁre. Our shields buckle and fall. I throw my bulk in
front of Colloway. A hundred slugs the size of ﬁsts tear
through the ship. One hits my shoulder instead of the back
of his chair, overloading the shield, buckling the armor as I
twist and redirect it into the ceiling. Half my body goes
numb. Auto-response needles in the suit inject adrenaline
into my bloodstream. My world pulses.
“And…boom.”
Through the sieve of slug holes, I glimpse the sky out the
back of the ship just in time to see the LongMalice rounds
arch down and detonate, releasing clouds of smaller
munitions. RipWings disintegrate.
Our tail free, Colloway accelerates in a straight line.
We’re out of the Ladon. The sky is blackening to the north.
Faint traces of lightning slither through the ﬁrmament. The
green grass of the Plains of Caduceus unfolds in front of us.
It is bedlam.

In the shadow of mushroom clouds, lines of burning
tanks and armored personnel carriers spread across the
ground like frayed rope. Hundreds of thousands of men run
on foot. GravBikes carrying four or ﬁve men apiece stutter
toward Red Reach base.
“The shield is still up,” Colloway murmurs from his sync
as the ﬁeld headquarters comes into view. I barely believe
him. Gigajoules of kinetic energy from particle beams turn
its dome shield a bloody crimson. But sure enough, Red
Reach has not fallen. Thank the Vale it wasn’t hardlined to
Angelia. Dozens of legions swarm under its protective
shelter, forming a logjam of tanks and war machines, which
overﬂow from her acres of guns, barracks, and defensive
works.
My Second Army is intact.
Above the shield dome swirls a dogﬁght of thousands.
RipWings churn through the vapor of cumulonimbus clouds
that bloom to the north, in from the sea. More dogﬁghts
ﬂash all the way up to the stratosphere, buying time for my
squadrons to intercept atomic ordnance. As it has before,
the grudge between the airheads and dustbacks vanishes.
A Blue shield of sacriﬁce protects their brothers on the
ground. They disappear by the dozens, careless of enemy
ﬁghters, hunting nothing but the falling missiles. In a way,
it is beautiful. In every other way it is horrible to watch.
I must make their sacriﬁce count. It’s hard to see how.
Pillars of white particle beams ﬂare down from orbit,
piercing clouds, vaporizing men and metal as they rake
canyons in the ground. We are outmatched. There is no
conventional answer to Atalantia’s orbital guns. But if Red
Reach can just last…
To the south of Red Reach, in the mountains that
overlook the northern plains, several ground-to-orbit
batteries continue to ﬁre upward. Colloway takes us
through a mountain valley, aiming for one of the several

dozen skyhooks I scattered across Helios. Of the ﬁve in our
ﬂight path, it is the only one that remains airborne, docked
as it is under a leaning cleft of a mountain that also
shelters a Drachenjäger garage. Thousands of starShell
rigs await their pilots on the skyhook’s tarmac.
“Skyhook Eleven, Necromancer coming in hot. Thirteen
elves, ﬁve giants, ten dwarfs, and one Reaper need heavy
iron. Prep pitcrews for emergency gearup.”
“Copy. Bay two clear. Pitcrew on standby.”
We make an emergency landing on the ﬂoating supply
platform. Pitcrews swarm its surface, shuttling munitions
between the mountain supply depot and the skyhook. They
load errant packs of aerial infantry into starShells, and
send them into the fray. The purple and silver banners of
the Arcosian Knights waver in the air as they land in
gravBoots on the far side. There are few actual Arcoses
amongst them, but all hail from client houses loyal to the
widows of Lorn’s sons. I’ll need my best men with me.
As Colloway takes stock of damage done to Necromancer,
I barrel out with the Howlers. A pitboss directs us to a rank
of the armored starShells lying on their backs just beneath
the garage’s vertical door. Inside the garage, the armored
Fifteenth Legion Helldivers will be syncing with their
Drachenjägers. The forty-meter-tall machines are made to
dominate battleﬁelds. They are shaped like boxy humans
wearing spiked backpacks, except there is no head or neck,
simply a hunched pilot cockpit set low between the
shoulders. They have six jointed arms, multiple cannons at
the elbows, and huge ion cleavers.
I check to make sure the master storm switch is still in
the second right thigh box of my pulseArmor and lie down
in one of the starShells, a four-meter-tall mechanized suit
capable of ﬂight meant to make men mobile tanks. In
concert with Drachenjägers they make regular infantry

nearly obsolete, but they are expensive, bulky, and eat fuel
like mad.
A crew of twelve Oranges and Reds go to work around
me, jacking data-links from the starShell into my
pulseArmor, attaching a double magazine, calibrating the
gear, priming the fusion sword, and sealing on an extra
battery. Ten seconds ﬂat is all they need. They clear oﬀ and
move to the next. A hydraulic lift punches the back of the
starShell. I lever to my feet ﬂanked by nearly thirty
armored Howlers. Two Reds hang on to the front of the
four-meter starShell, securing the canopy over me.
Through their working arms, I see the enemy aircraft
making a coordinated mass maneuver away from Red
Reach. We call it a nuke ﬂower.
“Atomic brace!” I shout, and look frantically for Rhonna. I
spot her rushing a wounded Howler to the skyhook’s
medBay, too far to make it back to the Necromancer or in
under the supply depot’s closing blast doors.
A siren screams. Hundreds of pitmen scramble for cover
or to get oﬀ the exposed skyhook to the safety of the
mountain garage doors. Rhonna won’t make it there.
“Alexandar!”
He’s already moving, swinging the long arms of his
starShell as he rushes to scoop her up and jump back to us.
Colloway zips away on the Necromancer to hide behind the
mountain.
One of the Reds atop me seals my canopy, catching the
other’s arm in the sealing teeth. The Red jerks at his arm,
unable to get down. His hand ﬂails inside the canopy, not
far from my face. Blood trickles down his forearm. His
fellow abandons him. He can’t be more than twenty years
old. An iron haemanthus pendant hangs from his neck. His
eyes are wild with fear as they meet mine. He’s jammed the
canopy. I can’t open it. I try to cover him with my arms.
Alexandar curls his starShell around Rhonna like a cocoon.

The huge blast doors close behind us. Pitmen hammer at
the doors from the outside. Poor bastards.
“Brace!” I shout. Felix and an Obsidian pathﬁnder kneel
in their starShells with me, forming a wedge with me at the
point, sheltering Alexandar and Rhonna. Scores of other
wedges form. Pitmen rush to take shelter behind them. The
Red outside my canopy screams. Even if I free him, he
cannot be helped. He isn’t in pulseArmor like Rhonna.
My ampliﬁed optics see it now over his shoulder. A lone
dagger-shaped speck trailing vapor as it falls toward Red
Reach base. Two ripWing pilots chase after it, spraying ﬁre.
They overload its shield, pierce its casing. And then orbital
artillery wipes them away. The bomb falls uncontested.
I patch into Red Reach’s Central Command.
A warroom ﬁlls my view. Three dozen Martian oﬀicers,
representing eight colors, stand like ghosts in the pale light
of the battlemap watching the atomic fall.
“An omega-atomic will impact in thirty seconds,” I say
quietly. The Red outside my cockpit is listening too, his face
pressed to the glass just two hand spans away from my
own. “Your ﬁght is behind you. Remember now your
beloved. Your wife, your husband, your father, your mother,
your daughter, your son.” I meet his eyes. They look so
much like my mother’s. “Remember the sea, the highland
forests, Agea at dawn, Olympia at twilight, Attica in spring,
Thessalonica in harvest.” As I speak, they close their eyes
and unscrew the canisters of Martian soil to clench in their
hands. Gold and Red, Blue and Orange, Gray and Obsidian.
My heart breaks in half. “Remember home. Remember
Mars. You go there now to rest under the shade of her—”
They disappear in a wash of static.
Stillness, as if the sky inhaled sound and time. I close my
eyes and hold the Red as tight as I dare.

Primordial light. Intense, tiny, like the pupil of a god
followed by a second expanding ﬂash so brilliant and vast it
makes my eyelids transparent and reveals every bone,
joint, and blood vessel in the Red pitman stuck outside my
canopy. I see the X-rayed bones of a dozen others through
their ﬂesh. A curled engineer makes a silhouette,
transparent like the image of a fetus asleep in the womb.
The ﬂash contracts to reveal a mutinous ﬁreball at the
hypocenter of the blast. Air, grass, rock, metal, and men
vaporize as their matter heats to match the heart of a sun.
A wall of thermal energy washes outward. A ghost of ﬁre
walks through me. The Red’s eyes that look like my
mother’s begin to bubble and then they melt with the rest
of him. In the wake of the heat, a colossal wave of pressure
races toward us at the speed of sound. The skyhook rocks
backward against the face of the mountain. The bones of
the Red shatter and blow away in the wind. His severed
hand falls oﬀ inside the canopy. My boots spark on the
ﬂattop surface as the shockwave pushes me back. I stagger,
supported by the Howlers. Pitmen who took shelter behind
mechs in front of us look like autumn leaves as their
tattered bodies are hurled oﬀ the ﬂoating platform down
into the mountains. Others are lifted from their feet and
slam into starShells, turning to pulp. Clothing is torn away.
Blues and Oranges with weaker bones are pulverized on
the spot to become liquid bags held together by bubbling
ﬂesh.
Then the debris.
Charcoal birds fall from the sky and crumble to pieces on
the concrete. RipWing detritus hails down. A ﬂattened tank
cartwheels past, thrown dozens of kilometers from the
plains, to crash into a mountain façade above our base. A
great grumbling ﬁlls the mountain range as hundreds of
avalanches roll down the sheer granite cliﬀs. I swear I even
see the planet ripple. I look up, and up, and up, through my

starShell canopy; the ﬁreball articulates skyward, with a
vortex of debris and smoke swirling around a molten heart
of ﬁre where once there was my Second Army.
A million men, tanks, and arms to ash.
The hollow abyss of despair calls to me. The voice that
found me in the Jackal’s prison tomb. Reaper, Reaper,
Reaper. Look what you have done. Look what you are. In
your shadow, nothing can survive.
Somewhere above, Atalantia will be smiling.
Alexandar’s mech steps to my side. I search desperately
for Rhonna. She staggers to her feet, her pulseArmor fried,
but she is alive. Relief ﬂoods me.
“Your order, sir?” Alexandar asks.
The mushroom is reﬂected in his canopy.
Orders? What orders can be given in this madness? Our
long-range coms are down. I cannot adjust my plan. Thraxa
is unsupported. About to be cut oﬀ. I would pray if I knew
any gods were listening. Let the First Army have survived
the blast. Let the Morning Star have arrived in time for
them to shelter under her shields. Let there be life in all
this ash. No god listens. There are only men. And what one
does, another may undo. That is my only religion. That of
the hand and the lever.
“Midnight, are you out there?”
“Barely. EMP nearly fried me. Ship is falling to pieces.”
Even at short range I can barely hear him.
“The storm is coming in earnest. Can you make it to
Kydon?”
“If I have to ﬂap the wings myself.”
“When you get there, tell Thraxa to break oﬀ and make
for Tyche. The Second can’t reinforce her. The First is
coming to help her retreat to Tyche.”
“Where are you going?”

“To make sure Tyche is still ours when you get there.”
He says nothing for a moment. “Happy travels, sir.
Midnight out.”
His engines ﬂare and he lurches away. Only my
starShells remain on the platform. I give them orders to
abandon the stuttering skyhook and gather inside the
opening blast doors of the garage. “Rhonna.” She whirls to
face me. “The Helldivers are inside. See if they got a spare
rig. I need a full-metal god.”
“Yessir.”
Five minutes later, I ﬂoat over the starShells and the
huge Drachenjägers behind them. They stretch into the
mountain, rank upon metal rank. Helldiver Legion, the
Armored Fifteenth. Martians all, my ﬁrst and best
Drachenjäger legion. I rode with them to end the Siege of
Olympia to chase the Minotaur out of Cassius’s former
home, and then again at Agea against Atlas and the Ash
Lord.
“Helldiver Legion! Enemy iron is inbound. Our coms are
down. Soon the storm will claim theirs. The First Army will
hit them at the Children and then retreat to Tyche. The city
will soon come under siege by at least one full army group.
“Legate Telemanus believes the Second Army is now
streaming to Tyche to relieve that siege and clear her path
of retreat. Of the Second Army, we are all that remains. If
Tyche falls, our brothers are lost. Will Tyche fall?” In reply,
ﬁve thousand pairs of Drachenjäger boots hammer the ﬂoor
of the cavern with a seismic booom. “Atalantia thinks the
Second Army is ash. Are we ash?” Booom. Booom. “Are we
afraid?” Boom. Boom. Boom. “What are we!”
“HELLDIVERS!”
“Form columns!”
The air warps with the thermal distortion of ﬁve
thousand drachen engines growling to life. I see Rhonna

slide into a black rig at the rear. Its arms pump as the bolts
that stud her body sync with the Drachenjäger. My Howlers
rise around me. The Arcosian Knights form columns in their
starShells. At the vanguard, I turn to face the darkening
world.
Enemy iron streams down to the western and eastern
horizons. Little more than gnats in the shadow of the
atomics. Obelisks of radioactive smoke and debris grow
upon the Plains of Caduceus. High above their stalks, the
bulbous heads of the mushroom clouds disappear into the
thickening storm cover. Black clouds ride. Lightning
shatters the sky. Atalantia has shattered our jaw with her
ﬁrst punch. Now it’s our turn. I lift my slingBlade.
“For the Republic! For Mars!”
“Ride hell!”

***LysanderTwelve ripping rivers of shadow move across a desert of

white chalk. The shadows are cast by six thousand
starShells ﬂying in twelve iron columns.
It is two hours since breach and I do not feel sane.
My life has disintegrated into a series of fragmented
moments of extreme fear and unreal violence. It is deﬁned
by new sensations. The crunching of ice under clawed
titanium foot. The slip of snow. The scrape of rock. The
whistling of air. The tangy chlorine smell of ozone from my
railgun. The ever-present tension that a benign ridge will
suddenly come alive with anti-aircraft ﬁre.
I no longer trust stillness.
Stillness is the enemy taking careful aim.
After clearing the briar-patch of mountain gun
installations, our legion linked with our launch partners,
the Terran-born XX Fulminata, the Thunderbolt Legion, to
swell our numbers and drive north to make a secure
landfall for the ﬁrst wave of one hundred ﬁfty thousand,

and then the two million that will follow in the second and
third waves to take Heliopolis.
Sooty smoke rises from the ruins of Republic scout craft
and gun batteries cleared by Fulminata. I am relieved to be
out of the mountains. Amongst the icy peaks, Ajax took us
headlong at any threat like some possessed Homeric hero. I
barely managed to keep pace, but my blade is well blooded
from the bunker hunts. Kalindora shadowed me through it
all, muttering about young pups wanting glory. Seraphina is
keen for glory too, but not keen enough to override her
discipline.
She is a better soldier than she was a traveling
companion. Twice she guarded my ﬂank. Once in the ruins
of a mountain bunker when an Obsidian charged from the
rubble with an axe. Once in the air when I didn’t spot an
anti-aircraft battery.
By midday, the ﬁrst signs of civilization appear on the
blasted landscape. A hotel for the wealthy beside a high
mesa lake. Water farms, ore reﬁneries, and a mining town
with gold pyramids painted on their roofs to ward oﬀ
bombardment. Small-arms ﬁre ﬂashes feebly at us from a
rooftop.
“Leopard Eleven engaging sniper,” I intone. I have three
rockets left. “Thermal readings indicate multiple civilians
in adjacent basements. Red and Brown genus. Switching to
guns.” Kalindora shadows me as I bank to make a precision
shot at the two men on the roof.
A pillar of blinding light divides the horizon.
I break oﬀ to avoid the rippling shockwave.
When the orbital strike clears, the town is a molten
crater. “Too slow on the draw,” Ajax drawls as I reel. “You’ll
have to be quicker than a cat to steal my kills.”
“They were civilians…”

“Sympathizers. Don’t worry, you get half a notch. Used
your targeting solution, didn’t I?”
“Only counts as one,” Seneca adds. “Hive mind.”
Laughter.
Kalindora hails my private frequency, but I reject the
request.
Soon we are at the edge of the sky still protected by the
Rising’s southern shield chain. This deep in the Ladon,
there is no sign of the enemy. Heliopolis is still a hundred
klicks south.
When we set down in a shallow playa west of a reservoir
city, I am ﬁlled with contempt. I pop the starShell’s top,
desperate for fresh air. But the desert heat hits like an
anvil. An ache ﬁlls my lungs. Already, I feel the sun burning
my ship-pale skin. I suck water from my suit’s caches and
step away from the commotion of the landing legions. Ajax
calls to me, but I ignore him.
I count the thermal signatures from my mental picture.
Three hundred and eleven. Some too small to be anything
other than children.
I knew war wouldn’t be clean. But he used my targeting
data on children.
The sense of certainty and purpose that brought me here
is fading. I feel like a boy from the crowd who thought he
could tame lions by stepping in the cage with them.
Seraphina is ﬁne in the cage. She stalks past with an
excited glimmer in her eye. Ajax might hold the highest
killcount, but she is not far behind. All will be recorded in
holographic glory by their helmet cams, and tallied by
administrators on the Annihilo. “War conforming to your
expectations?” I ask.
“Beautifully so,” she says between gulps of water.
“Beautifully so.”

As she walks away, I look out at the alien landscape.
Between the Aigle Mountains and Hesperides is a ﬂat belly
of desert pavement broken only by dunes of white chalk,
mushroom-shaped limestone hoodoos, and pale white cacti
the size of houses. Mountains saw the horizon in half.
Above them, the sun squats malevolently. White golems
trudge through this bleakness like the mechanized
overseers of Dante’s hell. Pale with desert chalk, the Golds
spike beacons into the hard clay of the playa. Elsewhere,
scouts in light armor and optics helmets set drones loose as
if they were pet falcons. Everyone’s a hunter here.
Seneca, Ajax’s bodyguard, winks at me as his drones soar
north.
There’s a crash to my right as Kalindora’s starShell lands
in a cloud of dust. “Don’t waste the peace, Lysander. This
grime will kill your shell sure as a railgun.” She bends her
knees and uses her elbows to cushion her suit as it falls to a
sitting position. I join her and we crawl out of our
starShells to clean the outsides. I spare glances at Ajax
conversing with the Fulminata Legate. I know I should suck
down my rising disgust, shadow him, learn from him and
make myself useful, but something about him out here
makes me feel unwelcome.
I have the sneaking suspicion that the orbital strike was
more a message for me than a necessary military action.
Could he really discount lives so ﬂippantly?
“What’s your core status?” Kalindora asks.
“Sixty-six percent.”
“So he still listens.” She nods in disgust at the Iron
Leopards. “Most of those whelps are walking around subﬁfty because they didn’t hold their burn. They’ll depend on
recharge.”
“That was a war crime,” I say. “It was only small-arms
ﬁre.”

“Only a crime if there’s a court. Eat.” Kalindora tosses
me a protein bar. “You move well,” she says. At any other
time, I’d bask in her compliments as I did as a boy. “Superb
instincts. But you’re clumsy in takeoﬀ and need to expand
your ﬁeld of vision. You act like you want to use your razor
instead of your gun. This isn’t asteroid corridor ﬁghting or
whatever the blazes Bellona had you at. You did prime work
on that aerial infantry though. I saw you put down four. Not
your ﬁrst kills, it seems.”
“No.”
She sees me staring at the ground. Her voice approaches
anger. “What did you expect?”
“I don’t know.”
“Why did you come back?” she asks.
When I don’t answer, she turns her back and crawls into
her mech. “Your sensors picked up some people.” She
levers to her feet as I climb into my cockpit. “Did your
sensors tell you they didn’t have weapons? No. Did they tell
you they weren’t saboteurs or snipers? No. Or even
Howlers? No. So how can mercy exist when anyone could
carry an atomic rocket, and you don’t know? That’s the
problem with this war. Cruelty is necessary. Yet cruelty is a
thermal runaway.”
The ﬁrst wave of transports descends from the sky by the
time I’ve sealed myself back in my starShell. Those ships
with thrusters kick clouds of debris into the air. The ones
with gravity engines form ﬂoating cloaks of chalk.
GravBikes roar out of pens. Gray legionnaires skinned in
desert armor and visor-bearing helmets pour out of
personnel carriers. Dozens of humanoid titans, hoverTanks,
and spiderTanks decouple from their transports and land
on the dirt with a sound like hammers striking on wood.
Then come the engineers.

With a hundred ﬁfty thousand men and women landed,
the engineers rapidly begin securing and fortifying the
landfall for the primary wave.
I look past the disembarking troops to the north.
There are shouts. Portable railguns swivel on their
gyroscopes.
“Signatures inbound!” Seraphina shouts from the
perimeter. She bursts back.
“Friendlies!” someone conﬁrms.
A swarm of starShells descend perpendicular to the main
landing. They make landfall in a pyramid in front of
Kalindora, nearly a thousand in armor of a dozen disparate
houses. Not one amongst them is Gold.
Only the best and most loyal of Grays are given license
for starShells.
Their leader clomps forward. His starShell viewport and
the pulseArmor helmet beneath retract and the face of a
young-gunslinger-turned-old-centurion stares at me as if
he’s seen a man come back from the Void. One thousand
mech-suited Praetorians fall to their knees.
“SubLegate Rhone ti Flavinius and the First Cohort
Praetorian Guard reporting for duty, my liege.” His cheeks
are covered with more black and gold teardrops than when
he served as my shooting instructor in the Citadel. I didn’t
think there was any more room.
The Gold knights surrounding us look back and forth
between the most famous Gray alive, a thousand exPraetorians, and a scarless Pixie in borrowed armor with
the Love Knight at his side.
They need no further explanation.
“Rhone ti Flavinius?” I say. “Hades didn’t reclaim you
yet?”
“And lose his best recruiter? Perish the thought, my
liege.” His accent is pure Lunese stock. Last in a long line

of Praetorians, from birth he was sponsored by my family,
and excelled in the ludus until he proved himself in
battleﬁelds across a dozen spheres under the command of
Aja and Lorn. He rose so high as to become second oﬀicer
under Aja of the XIII Dracones. There is no more famous a
Praetorian, save perhaps his treasonous understudies: the
Nakamuras.
On the day my grandmother died, he was in orbit
preparing to face Virginia.
He would have thought the Line ended that day.
I wave him to his feet and tell him to rise.
“I cannot, my liege. On behalf of the First Cohort of the
thirteenth and the scattered Guard, it falls upon me to
issue our grievous apologies for abandoning the search,
and presuming you dead. Our oath was till the
extinguishment of the Blood. If there’s punishment due, it
is my duty to bear it for my men, in place of decimation,
and an honor that my last order come from the Heir of
Silenius.”
The dragoon commander produces a Praetorian dagger
and puts it to the dragon tattoos that circle his neck.
“The fault lies not with you, but with your patron. I was
the one who was lost. Now, on your feet, Praetorian.”
He stands. In his forties, he’s no longer the arrogant
lurcher I remember winning the Legion Pyramid at the
summer martial games. War has aged him past his years,
but the boyish glimmer remains in the sharpshooter’s pale
eyes. “Exter? Fausta?” I ask, searching behind him.
“Dead. Exter by the Goblin on Luna. Fausta from an
orbital strike on Mars.” A shame. They were always kind to
me, particularly Fausta. “Kruger is still shooting the wings
oﬀ ﬂies. He’s my decurion.”
“How did you know I returned?” I ask. He looks at
Kalindora. I turn on her in surprise.

“Atalantia cares for Atalantia,” she says. “But there are
many of us who would not see the heir die on the hour of
his return. These men are sworn to you. As am I, my liege.
Old oaths outweigh the new.”
“Am I to take this to mean Atalantia means me harm?”
“Of course not,” she replies. “She wept when she
received your communiqué, but you are a Lune, and scar or
not, you have no right to prevent these men from honoring
their oaths.”
This is not what I had in mind when I set out to prove my
loyalty to Atalantia. It is a disaster. The Praetorians are not
simply men sworn to my house. They are as much a symbol
of the Sovereigncy as the Morning Chair itself. I search for
Ajax but cannot ﬁnd him in the mill of his landing legions.
Seraphina has wandered over. She recognizes Rhone and
takes a step closer.
“I apologize I could not bring more men, and for the
accoutrement,” he says, frowning at the blue and silver
armor he wears. “We believed you dead. The most
shameless have gone mercenary. Some have found work
with the other houses. Most went to Atalantia. These here
were with Julia au Bellona. Her house isn’t what it was, but
she doesn’t spend men as quickly as the rest. She’s
terminated our contract as a gesture of ﬁdelity to you.”
I feel a pang of guilt. My own family glowers at me with
suspicion, and Cassius’s mother sends me an olive branch.
More. A backing of my claim. I know enough of the woman
to know she’s playing her own little game, but now she’s
beginning to interrupt mine.
“The Lady Bellona knows I’ve returned, then,” I say to
Rhone.
“Little escapes Julia au Bellona.” He smiles. “It was a
long-range communiqué. But she says she will be joining
you shortly. More of the Guard will come from the other

houses as soon as they hear of your return.” He clears his
throat, suddenly very serious. “It will be as it was, my
Sovereign.”
I look past the man to see Ajax watching us.
His eyes are ﬁlled with so much wrath you would think I
had just arranged for the Morning Chair to be delivered
straight to the desert.
“So much for your word to my brother,” Seraphina says.
Her Rim eyes are chromed out for the desert light and
unreadable, but her look of disdain is total.
“Lower your voice, man. I am not the Sovereign,” I tell
Rhone. “Nor do I intend to be. Purge it from your thoughts
lest you wish to see me dead.” I wheel on Kalindora. “How
dare you presume—”
“Am I to be scolded like a child by a child?” she asks.
“How odd this world is.”
“Don’t mock me. You know how this looks.”
“Yes,” she says. “Yes, I do.”
Dammit all to Hades. I stomp away from her and the
Praetorian, hoping to get a word with Ajax, but he is
clustered in a thick knot of his oﬀicers. They sit on the
edges of their cockpits. Seneca has produced a metal
canteen from a thigh storage pouch. Another Gold supplies
small tin cups, which Ajax ﬁlls. “To life and landfall,” he
says, and they tip the whiskey. “We’ll ﬁnish the rest in
Heliopolis. Sorry, little brother. Lost you in the sea of
Praetorians. You should wear a crown so we can ﬁnd you.”
No whiskey is poured for me. A woman gives me her own
cup too eagerly. I’m wearing my suit, so I can’t take it.
The ﬁrst suitor makes their bid, poorly.
Ajax notices.
“May we have a moment, Ajax?”
He ignores me to address his men. “The intel and sensors
didn’t lie. We’re ﬁve hundred kilometers from their nearest

deployed force. We are in a slow tango with Heliopolis.
They never thought we’d sneak a hand up the back of their
skirt.”
Atalantia’s gambit is bold. While the bulk of the army
focuses on the battle with the Republic in the north, she
looks beyond the battle. The capital, Tyche, is the
emotional victory for Votum. But Heliopolis is the prize—
control it, control the south and her thousands of iron
mines. Grimmus troops will occupy the Sun City, and they
will stay for generations. The poor Votum have no idea
what they’re paying for her to take their planet back.
It is shameful. And none of them care. As cliens, or
clients of House Grimmus, Atalantia, their patronus owes
them protection and sponsorship. She will be sure to richly
reward their loyalty and service in arms.
“It will be an assault,” Ajax says. “Soon as the ground
iron and infantry land, we push west in force. Seneca, take
a century. Harass their vedette and drones. If it breathes or
beeps, it dies. I want them blind as we—”
Ajax is interrupted as a signal comes over the general
oﬀicer channel. The Golds slide in unison back into their
starShells and latch up as the message crackles.
“All oﬀicers…is Fury Command. Have…situation
developing. Stand…for update.”

“THIS…ARCHIMMUNES UMBERTO’S FANT…FIVE
HYPERCANES…FORMED
OVER…
SYCORAX….ANOMALOUS PRESSURE CENTERS…
EIGHTY
KILO…PASCALS.
THE
LARGEST…
WINDSPEEDS OF EIGHT HUNDRED KILOMETERS
PER…MOVING SOUTH” The signal cuts out and
reestablishes. “WILL MAKE LANDFALL ON…HELION
COAST IN TWENTY…EXPECT CLOUD COVER TO
THIRTY
KILOMETERS.
HEAVY…FALL,
TURBULENCE, ELECTRICAL…INTERFERENCE AND

STORM SURGES…SECONDARY STORM FORMING
OVER…WASTE OF LADON…”
Confused glances are exchanged. “Hypercane?” Seneca
frowns through his open cockpit.
“Those aren’t possible except in the Rim,” Seraphina
says, coming up from behind with Kalindora.
But I alone know that they very much are. Grandmother,
you left landmines everywhere.
“Perhaps we should delay landing,” I oﬀer neutrally. The
oﬀicers glare as if I’ve spit in their eyes.
“Delay landing?” Ajax asks, incredulous. “And let a bit of
weather steal our glory? I think your time amongst Moonies
has made you superstitious, goodman.”
“If there are ﬁve hypercanes over the Sycorax…”
“That’s a thousand kilometers from here.”
“A storm with eighty kilopascals has the capacity to cover
all of Helios—much less ﬁve of them.” I do the math.
“Eight-hundred-kilometer-per-hour winds will pull down a
ripWing. Electrical will slag any orbital relay. The Immunes
mentioned a secondary storm. If there are pressure
anomalies in the desert, we should suspend the land—”
“Lysander, enough,” Ajax says.
It’s the ﬁrst time he’s used my name in front of them,
though they all know who I am by now. I pull it back.
There’s no way out of this. No way to avoid alienating him
except by playing dumb, but then men die.
Ajax continues. “Thank you. Seneca, I told you to take
your men—”
“Ajax,” Seneca interrupts, “the northern drones have
gone down.”
Ajax bares his teeth. “What do you mean, gone down?
Did they report enemy contact?”

“They’re not responding to commands and their feeds
are static. They were picking up some sort of pressure
anomaly.”
“A pressure anomaly?” Ajax glances at me as if I did this.
“Hail the scouts.”
“They’re not responding either. Something is interfering
with their coms.”
“Quiet,” Seraphina says. She lifts her hand to touch the
wind. “Don’t you feel it?”
“What?” Kalindora says.
“The storm.”
A stone clatters against Ajax’s starShell. He looks down
with a frown. Rocks bounce against my boots. Then all
along the landfall, men shout and point at something to the
northwest. Ajax’s eyes click upward to look past our
semicircle of oﬀicers and then widen. “By Jove…”
Out there, amongst the chalk, coming down the desert
ﬂats between the mountain ranges, is a storm like those
I’ve seen only in terraforming holos. A wall of sand rages
across the desert. My feet root me to the ground as a great
convulsive sigh of horror goes through the vanguard and
the ﬁrst wave.
Seraphina turns on Ajax. “Take cover.”
“Helmets up! Prepare for elements!” Ajax shouts. “Land
those ships! I want those tanks on the ground!”
The army breaks into frantic contortions.
I see the missing scouts as I shout to the Praetorians to
take shelter. The scouts race ahead of the storm, burning
their boots for all they’re worth. Little dots chased by a
great brown tide. One disappears into the darkness. Ajax
shouts commands to the transport pilots, but they’re
caught in landing protocol. Some try to land ahead of the
storm, only to make a logjam. Others peel oﬀ, but the winds

knock them oﬀ course and they clash together in the sky as
the roaring of the sand wall encroaches.
It is the end of the world.
The sand hits us like a sweeping broom. I watch as three
engineers setting up a communications array sprint back to
their ship. The sand, traveling at hundreds of kilometers an
hour, shreds their uniforms and bodies down to the bone
with the thoroughness of a decay time-lapse. Kalindora is
with me. We brace ourselves and the wall hits us. I’m
kicked sideways, spinning on the ground end over end,
unable to stand or orient myself. Finally, after colliding with
its door hatch, I manage to crawl behind a heavy tank.
Hidden from the wind, I watch as the wall hits the stream
of transports.
Decimation.
Hundreds of spaceships with reinforced hulls, state-ofthe-art ion propulsion engines, and the battle scars of a
dozen engagements meet the force of the Mercurian
desert. It clubs them to death with the carelessness of a
gargantuan child. It throws a squadron of ripWings into the
mountainside. Whips a hundred-meter tank carrier into a
death spiral, smashing it into the ground where it crushes
half a legion of Grays sheltering inside a ground transport.
And, all at once, the mission that took a month to plan and
half a year to prepare, one that was to be executed by men
and women who’ve made a vocation of war, comes apart
with no explanation except that the Reaper is sharing our
planet, and that my family is a line of paranoid tyrants.
A dark shape stumbles out of the storm to join me behind
the tank.
It’s Ajax’s starShell.
He crashes down and sits unmoving, unspeaking.
Lightning ﬂashes in the storm-obscured sky, illuminating
his terriﬁed face. His lips tremble. His eyes are wide and

white and boyish. I’ve seen him like this only once before,
frozen in place out there on the West Line, a kilometer-high
communications hardline we used to dare each other to
walk as children. The ﬁrst time we tried, he froze only a
quarter of the way across. What began so conﬁdently
ended with his knuckles turning white as he gripped the
edge and stared down at the thousand-meter drop. I walked
out to him and set a hand on his shoulder, and told him only
he could walk himself to safety. A quarter kilometer back,
or three-quarters forward and across. Which way he
walked was up to him.
He walked back.
It was one of the deﬁning moments of our childhood,
when we both discovered the substance of his courage.
I put a hand on his shoulder now. Our eyes meet, and I
know he’s back on the West Line with me. Slowly, the fear
leaves him, and we share a moment of wordless comfort.
Forgotten are the Praetorians, my absence, all of it. I have
his back. He just has to go forward.
—
With eﬀort, Ajax manages to gather many of his oﬀicers in
the garage bay of an infantry transport. The storm has
raged for thirty minutes and shows no signs of abating. The
hull creaks as we cluster together in the dim light.
Seneca grumbles his way through his report. “Sixty
transports destroyed in the ﬁrst minute. There’s no
accounting for the rest. We can’t establish communications
with the ﬂeet, command, or the transports. I’ve never seen
this much electrical interference from a storm.”
“He did this…” Ajax murmurs. His eyes are ﬁxed on the
roof of the transport.
“I’m sorry, sir?” Seneca says.

“Darrow,” Kalindora conﬁrms. “He’s mad.”
“It’s just a storm,” Seraphina says from the corner in
irritation. “Unless the Slave King can summon hypercanes
at the drop of a pin, it’s a freak occurrence. It will soon
pass.”
“This is Mercury, not the Rim. We don’t have hypercanes.
Ever.”
“He can summon storms,” I say.
Ajax snorts. “He’s a man, not a nightmare.”
“He’s using Storm Gods,” I say.
“The only Storm Gods left are on Triton and Pluto.”
“Look at the patterns of the storm,” I say, gesturing to
the map. “The killzone Darrow intended to land us in was
here. The storms form a circle. It can’t be coincidence.
Those temperature ﬂuctuations in the ocean must be
manmade. Like this sandstorm.”
Their eyes go hard.
“He intended to pin us in, cut us oﬀ from the sky, trash
our second wave, bar the landing of the third, and hunt us
down inside the circle. But he didn’t expect anyone this far
south. I bet my life a Storm God is out there somewhere to
the northwest. It is likely to be only lightly defended.”
“Where did he get a Storm God, Lysander?” Ajax asks
quietly.
“Where it was buried, I imagine.”
“And why would it be buried?”
“As a safeguard against Votum rebellion.” They blink with
irritating slowness, as though they are surprised that a
Sovereign who would annihilate Rhea would have moral
objections to keeping her family’s invisible leash on a
planet as important as Mercury. “The ocean storms will
have a life cycle even if the Storm God is downed. The

desert storm will die quicker. We bring the engine down,
the sandstorms will abate.”
“How quickly?” Seraphina asks. “An hour? Two?”
“More likely several days. Maybe longer.”
The oﬀicers glower. This will ruin it all. Ajax watches me
like he would a stranger. That this secret should be kept
from House Grimmus bespeaks suspicion, as if Octavia and
the Lunes believed even they could not be trusted. I see my
friend wrestling with the pressure of the men looking at
him. The pressure of Atalantia’s immense expectations. The
pressure of Gold society and his own fantasies the child and
then the man wove together in the moments before sleep,
night after night, until they resembled nothing short of
destiny.
This was to be his moment of glory.
Now he looks total annihilation in the eye.
“We were tasked with taking Heliopolis,” he says. “I will
not disappoint my aunt. If Darrow planned this, if he is
using a Storm God, then he did it to freeze our movement.
We must contradict his intentions with all our vigor.”
“Surely you do not mean to attack Heliopolis now,”
Seraphina says, coming oﬀ the wall. “That storm is a
monster. It’ll pin the shells to the ground. Sweep away the
infantry. I’ve seen it before. You will die. So will your men.”
“She’s a Moonie, isn’t she?” Seneca growls. “Knew her
eyes were too big.”
“I am Seraphina au Raa,” she snaps at the Core oﬀicers.
For once it is not entirely unwelcome news. “I’ve trained
for Io’s storms. And if you attack Heliopolis in this wind,
you’ll all be corpses. You must wait for it to pass, or ﬁnd a
way to kill it.”
“I concur with the Rim on this one,” Kalindora says.
“StarShells can’t ﬂy in this. It’ll be chaos. And Heliopolis’s
storm wall is no mere palisade.”

“Do you think I’m some vainglorious dullard?” Ajax snaps
at the women. “They know where we landed. The Reaper
would not let sand stop him from moving. He might have
thermal grids in the desert by which to navigate. But he
will expect the storm to stop us. He has the initiative. We
must take it back. So when the sand’s veil falls, we will not
be here. We will be at the walls of Heliopolis. We will land
whatever transports remain en masse, and then assault the
city when the storm dies.” He looks around. “I will need a
commander to lead a cohort to destroy the Storm God
while the rest of us push south with the titans.”
His eyes settle on me, and I feel the urgency behind
them. Hostility has been replaced by desperate faith. Here
is the chance to prove myself to Ajax and Atalantia.
“Lysander, will you and your Praetorians do this for me?
For our family?”
Kalindora shakes her head at me.
“It would be our honor,” I say.
“I will go with him,” Seraphina mutters. “This isn’t my
ﬁrst storm crossing. Gahja might get lost.”
“Two children leading the Praetorians?” Kalindora
laughs. “Of all the jumped-up arrogance. I’ll lead the party.”
“No. I will need you here, Kalindora,” Ajax says.
“The Storm God will have a garrison,” she says. “My oath
to Octavia still stands. I will defend the heir with my life.
And I’m going to kill a storm engine, Ajax. Got a problem
with that?”

***DarrowThe door of my trap slams closed.
The storm is here.
Day has become night. Black thunderheads race oﬀ the
sea to blind their armada. Lightning shatters the sky,
disrupting communications between their landing parties,
drones, and orbit support. Winds swirl and clash from
multiple storm eyes. They toss ripWings and landing craft
like toys. Their ﬁrst wave is trapped beneath the storm.
Their second is murdered within it. Their third dare not
descend.
Orion has given me my lever.
I’m putting my full weight on it.
Five thousand Drachenjägers pound for Tyche with half
again as many starShells riding upon their backs. More
survivors found us, swelling our ranks. We cut through the
famed ﬂower latifundia of Mercury. Our titanium feet
stomping orderly rows of sunblossoms. The ﬂower pollen

paints the clawed metal feet gold. From my perch on
Rhonna’s mech, I spot ships struggling in the high winds.
My columns hurdle the highway in a single bound and
split up to form into wedges. This is not their ﬁrst
shockwave.
The enemy lies ahead. An entire division—four legions—
has made landfall between Tyche and the Plains of
Caduceus. In the gloom thousands of ships bearing the
golden hammers of Votum unload men and war machines
onto rolling ﬁelds of lavender. They intended to mop up
whatever remains of my legions. But their landing has been
thrown into chaos by the storm. The customary Gold
landfall fortiﬁcations aren’t complete. Tank wedges are
only half formed. War machines barely unloaded. Infantry
sheltering from the wind behind grounded transports. They
don’t expect us yet. And they don’t see us coming.
We fall upon them with malice.
A Gold in a starShell with oﬀicer markings stands with
his oﬀicers around a communications array in the shelter of
a hill. One of his men points. He turns just as lightning
ﬂashes, illuminating our tide of onrushing metal. Rhonna
bounds forward and lands forty meters of war machine on
the oﬀicers. I watch on her shoulder as the starShells
crumple.
The ﬁrst column of Drachenjägers ﬁres four alphaomegas. The nukes detonate in the center and opposite
ﬂank of their landfall, just above their two groups of titans.
Daylight. Their heaviest armor—which would more than
match ours—vaporizes. A rolling tide of devastation. The
drachen wedges ﬁre their particle cannons in tiers,
targeting heavy armor. Five minutes before each can ﬁre
again. It makes no matter.
Bedlam follows as the wedges hew through the enemy
along a four-kilometer front like one hundred spears into
paper. The quad railguns ﬁre into the confused mass of

enemy. Infantry simply disappears. GravBikes are cut in
half. Transports peel away, only to clash against one
another as the wind disrupts their ﬂight paths.
The Drachenjägers pull their ion swords. Five thousand
blue-white cleavers go to work. When the carnage itself
slows the charge’s momentum, and we founder on the
debris from the nukes, the starShells release. Alexandar
and I spin sideways together.
I rip oﬀ the door of an infantry transport. A hundred
Grays in wargear stare at me in green light. Alexandar
opens ﬁre with his railgun. Thunder booms overhead. Felix
has fallen to a group of Grays with uranium riﬂes. We send
them scattering and haul him to his feet. Another second
and he’d be dead. The Golds are rallying to their legion
standard.
The standard rises from the spine of a giant blue titan.
The titan is sixty meters tall, four legs, and three main
cannons, with disk-shaped alien cockpit. The standard is
ﬁve meters tall and made of three emblems—the god
Helios, a Society pyramid, and a giant pair of golden
hammers. A Votum is with us. Please let it be Scorpio
himself. Two Drachenjägers plunge toward the standard. As
the titan arrests their charge with its gravity gun, Golds in
starShell swarm over the Drachenjägers like a pack of
velociraptors taking down a tyrannosaurus.
They jump onto the rightmost’s back and hew through
the spine armor to cut the power lines connecting the
stomach generator to the cockpit. The titan’s third arm
pulls the top half oﬀ the cockpit. A Gold in a starShell
reaches in and pulls the Orange pilot in half with his
armored hands and throws her body into the wind.
Gods, can they kill.
And I thank the Vale that it is the Arcosian Knights with
me. Not a Red I know could survive this outside a

Drachenjäger. I search for Rhonna, but can’t ﬁnd her rig in
the fray.
I gather Alexandar and a hundred of his kin and we drive
toward the rallying Golds from the ﬂank. Rhonna appears
to the left and her wedge draws their attention. By the time
they see us coming to their right, we’re amongst them,
ﬁring point-blank and drenching our blades.
With Alexandar, I mount the sixty-meter crest of the
titan, and kill the two Golds defending the height.
Alexandar carves the pilot out and holds him in the air. The
Gold man wears an incredible suit of armor that appears
nearly translucent. He slashes at Alexandar with his razor.
Alexandar bats the lightning-fast blade away and pins it in
his starShell’s hand. With his other hand, he squeezes the
pulseHelm of the Gold until it shears oﬀ. That’s quality,
there. “The Primus himself!” Alexandar shouts above the
wind. “Hiding in a titan. What a Pixie.”
The veins in the forehead of the old tyrant pulse as he
glares up, at the mercy of a man a quarter his age. “Blood
traitor!” he snarls. Then he sees my curved blade.
“Scorpio au Votum,” I warble out my speakers. Through
the rain and spattered blood on my canopy, his vain eyes
meet mine, and I drink in his fear. Blood leaks down his
face. “For a hundred and one years of rape, genocide, and
enslavement of your fellow man, I sentence you to the
mud.” There atop his titan, I cut him in half at the waist
and Alexandar hurls him oﬀ the height.
“The blood of the Conquerors thins,” Alexandar drawls
through the coms. He cuts the standard oﬀ the titan and
hands it to me. “One more for your collection, goodman.”
I shove it back into his hands. “Build your own.”
With a grin, he holds it up against the crackling sky and
leaps oﬀ to land on Rhonna, who trudges to pick us up. He

stabs it down into the thick shoulders of her Drachenjäger,
sharing the bounty.
“To Tyche!” I bellow. My men pick up the call and we
push through the shattered remains of the division to leave
it thrashing in the mud. More landfalls lie ahead. More
enemy to kill. More. More. More.
A laughing zeal ﬁlls me.
By the time we leave the ﬂower ﬁelds two hours later,
only ﬁve hundred drachens have fallen, and the standards
of fourteen legions decorate the shoulders of my rolling
columns. Alexandar has taken four with his own hand. I
trail with three. His second cousin Elander has two, along
with the captain of the Drachenjägers, and Rhonna herself.
We scalp the cores and battery shards from the dead for
our own starShells, rearm when the winds abate, and push
for the coastal highlands where Tyche and Atalantia await.
I’m coming, Atalantia. I’m coming for your head.

***Lysander
Praetorians, the Love Knight, and the
daughter of Romulus follow me west to seek the eye of the
desert storm.
It makes us a thousand and three worlds of misery.
Seraphina and Kalindora ﬂank me. Each man, each woman,
alone in the darkness of their suits, imprisoned by the wind
and sand.
Left foot. Right foot. Left foot.
Courtesy of Seraphina’s storm experience, we employ a
Rim trick. Towing wire holds us together like grapes so we
do not lose one another in the storm. Periodically,
Seraphina and Praetorians with storm experience detach to
scout our perimeter.
Still, our progress is slower than desired. Storm winds
hit us head-on and increase to over eight hundred
kilometers per hour, with visibility of scarcely two meters.
The storm robs us of the sky and our instruments. Bit by
bit, trespassing against the wind drains our starShells.
NE THOUSAND

After eight hours of this, only the transition of the
storm’s dimness to absolute darkness denotes the arrival of
night. When the wind lulls, we jog, tripling our pace by
using the thrusters in small bursts. Several lines snap
because of this, and we lose Praetorians in the storm.
There is no going back for them or for us.
The fear that gripped me in the tube of the Annihilo is
gone. The sensation of standing on the edge of the cliﬀ was
worse than the fall.
Life has winnowed down to a simple task and survival.
That simplicity is a comfort. For years I was in a torpor and
cowardly in indecision. Here I have certainty. I will prove
myself to Ajax. To Atalantia. I am their family, not their
rival.
Forward. Left foot. Right foot. Left foot. Right foot.
“Something is out there,” Seraphina says. I peer into the
darkness and see nothing. Still, Kalindora gives the order
to hunker down. We prime our weapons. “Holy hells.
Contact.”
There’s a chorus of hold-ﬁre calls from the scouts.
Dread shapes move in the murk. Only when they come
within ﬁve meters and they engage their lights can we see
they are starShells. Ten of them. Our headlamps illuminate
Votum hammer sigils painted on the chassis. Might be
hundreds behind them for all we can see. One steps out
before the others.
My com crackles and a handsome, sundark face
illuminated by starShell interior lights glows in my HUD.
“Ebb of the evening, goodmen. And we thought we were
the only civil company for a thousand klicks. Is that not
Kalindora herself I gaze upon?”
“Cicero, you scoundrel. You’re supposed to be in the
Plains of Caduceus.”

“Squeaks the mouse to the rat,” he says with light
menace. “Mayhaps Love is lost in the storm, my friends.
Didn’t you know Heliopolis is just a skip to the south?”
A beat of silence. “I go where I am ordered.”
“Like a good knight. The peril of oaths, no? But fear not,
my intrepid father noticed a certain lack of Leopards on his
ﬂank in the Plains of Caduceus and has sent us to ensure
that no skullduggery is afoot at the gates of Heliopolis.” His
voice lowers. “The city belongs to my father, Scorpio, and
House Votum. And we are weary of Grimmus henchmen
skulking in the dark.”
“Prepare to ﬁre,” Kalindora says over the private
channel.
“I have them ﬂanked,” Seraphina intones. “I count four
hundred. Could be more.”
“Belay that,” I snap. “No Praetorian will ﬁre on allies.
Nor will you, Seraphina.”
“Yes, dominus,” Rhone says and gives the order for all
Praetorians to stand down. Kalindora goes into a stony
silence.
“Private communications, eh, Kalindora? I don’t need to
crack your code to know what you said,” Cicero says. “Not
enough that that Lunese bitch tries to steal our city. She’ll
spill old blood like there’s so much of it left.”
“Salve, Cicero,” I say, taking over from Kalindora.
“And who’s that?” he asks. I share my face via hologram.
I knew Cicero as a child. Not well, but on the occasions
when his family visited Luna, Grandmother insisted I
entertain the voluble heir of House Votum. To be honest, I
found it tiresome, if not a little entertaining. He is ten years
older, and thus his condescension is limitless, and hilarious.
Yet unlike Ajax, he recognizes me immediately.
“Hades on high,” he says without an ounce of surprise.
“Is that Lysander au Lune in the pinkish ﬂesh?” So his

father told him.
“You never do forget a face, Cicero.”
“Not the pretty ones, at least. Father didn’t lie—not dead
after all. My, my. Atalantia has roped you into her schemes?
How the beast now leads the master.”
“We are en route to destroy the Storm God,” I say.
“There aren’t any Storm Gods on our planet.”
“There are. Explanations can wait. You want your city
back, I won’t stop you. But you won’t get there if those
engines are still running. I imagine your cores are as
depleted as ours.” He does not reply. “We have a pickup
scheduled.” That gets his attention. “What say you lend us
a hand, and we ride for Heliopolis together in the
morning?”
He laughs as if he were on a beach. “For such a dramatic
union, I’ll play earnest, so long as you support our claim to
Heliopolis when we ﬁnd Ajax, that mischievous little tart.”
Kalindora reminds me that it would put me in direct
conﬂict with Atalantia. But she’s already done that by
summoning the Praetorians.
“Heliopolis was built by House Votum, with House Votum
it should remain,” I say.
“Splendid. Then the Scorpion Legion is at your service,
my goodman. Or is it my liege? I suppose Father will
decide. If he survives the north. Calamity, goodman.” His
mind darkens. “Calamity.”
I cannot divine the strength of the Scorpion Legion as
they add their numbers to ours. Though Cicero continues to
babble in my ear, I’m soon lost in the now-familiar grind.
Left. Right. Left.
I’m deep in the drudgery when a hand grips my armored
shoulder. I blink out of my daze to see that it is three in the
morning. Landfall plus seventeen. I look back to see the
Praetorians arrayed ﬁfty deep to my right. The Scorpions

emerge from the dust to my left. They must be several
thousand in number.
At dire cost to our energy cores, we have made it to the
eye of the storm.
I hadn’t even realized.
It is a diﬀerent world. The eye is ﬁfty kilometers in
diameter. The air paciﬁc and clear of sand, as if held in
static twilight. A desert deerling watches us with suspicion.
A formless beast lurks beneath the mass of a hoodoo, its
eyes winking like coins. More beasts of all varieties ﬂoat
within the gravity shadow of the engines. They didn’t even
bother to diﬀuse the gravity shadow.
All this is surrounded by a vortex of sand, which swirls
around a monolith of gray metal.
The Storm God ﬂoats kilometers above the desert.
Wreathing its shoulders and stretching toward the
heavens is a swirling marble cloak of clouds veined with
lightning. Beneath that, little more than a fringe to that
cloak, is the swirling sand. Many of the animals who sought
shelter here gather in the grip of its gravity engines.
It breaks something inside me to see an instrument of
creation perverted into a weapon. Whatever doubt I held
vanishes. Darrow is no longer a good man. Even Atalantia
declined to use her atomics on actual cities. But to kill us,
Darrow will drown the northern coast of Helios. Tyche,
Kaikos, Priapos, Arabos, will all be in the path of tidal
waves.
Millions will die.
I do not know if it can be stopped, but he must be.
“This feels like a dream,” Seraphina whispers. This war is
proving to be all she ever wanted. Cicero eyes the woman
with interest and calls something to her.
I can barely hear him for the wind. Our instruments are
dazzled with false readings. I fear we will not be able to

reach Ajax even in the morning. Which is why he is
scheduled to come with pickup at 0600, if we manage to
down the engine.
I ﬁnd Kalindora at my side. Unlike Seraphina, she is not
in thrall to the Storm God. Sorrow ﬁlls her eyes as she
looks up and up. She has seen horror many times before.
This is merely its bleakest evolution. “Your thermal
runway,” I say.
She turns with a grim expression and pulls Rhone to her.
“Prepare to engage in six columns! Double heavy fronts.
Prep three wedges for a ﬂank charge!” She summons
Cicero. Robbed of our orbital support, we will have to do
this the old-fashioned way.
I check my ammunition just as there’s a ﬂash from the
Storm God. Cicero ducks with me. At the great distance, I
cannot distinguish what it is. Before I can pull up my
optics, Seraphina tilts her head back at me.
“Gahja, don’t be such a—”
And then the entire top half of her starShell disappears
as a rail slug the size of a man rips Romulus’s daughter
clean in half. My commands stick in the base of my throat
as the legs of the mech teeter and collapse sideways,
spilling her intestines out the top.
“Incoming!” Kalindora bellows.

***DarrowThere is no place in all worlds like Tyche.

Set on an incline between the mountains and the sea on a
great strip of lowland connecting it to the Talarian
Peninsula, it is the ancestral home of the gens Votum.
Though the city is famed for its white sands and coral reefs,
there is a reason the Votum family crest is a hammer. They
are builders. And they built this city not for greed, but for
beauty and symmetry. Her old quarter is carved entirely of
local stone and glass. Libraries the size of starships but
shaped like bizarre human heads line the mountains behind
the city. High, arching bridges link complex systems of
archipelagos, some of which migrate into the northern sea
in the late summer. Forests and gardens burst from
rooftops and ﬂowering plants creep down the narrow,
cobbled streets, which then wind in spirals up her twelve
great hills.
I remember the Liberation Day, nearly half a year ago
now, when I woke in the early morning before the parade

and walked alone down to the shore to listen to the gulls. I
only wished my wife and son could have been with me to
see that sunrise. For once, I did not glare at the sea and
wonder how many of my men it claimed. I did not resent
the world because it was made by slaves. I saw only a
multitude of splendors. I think that’s what Sevro called it.
On that day, Tyche was the second most beautiful city I had
ever seen. I wanted to share it with Pax and Virginia.
Now I am in time to see the city die.
As we pushed through the reeling legions, the storm
mutated from friend to wild, convulsing savage. Lunging in
from the sea, giant waves crash over the north coast of
Helios. As we neared Tyche, a wall of water nearly a half
kilometer high forced us to run to higher ground lest it
smash us as it does the Gold landing parties on the shore.
Boats ﬂoat in the center of ﬁelds. A shark snaps for air in
a tree. Our starShells can no longer attempt the sky. Trees,
rocks, and signposts ﬂung at hundreds of kilometers an
hour damage our suits, killing two of my precious Obsidian
pathﬁnders.
This is not the storm I was promised.
Orion has either disobeyed me or lost control.
Now, with dread in my belly, I rise unsteadily through the
howling wind to the crest of a hill where the Arcosian
Knights look down at a city drowning.
From Tyche’s southern wharf to the northern business
district, a third of the city is underwater. The storm surge
from the hypercane spreads east and shows no signs of
stopping short of the mountains. Within hours, the entire
city will be gone, with only the tallest towers peeking above
the sea. The western reach of the city, where the lowlands
connect with the Talarian Peninsula, is aﬂame and
shattered by siege. Twisted wrecks of tanks and
Drachenjägers litter the ground between huge breaches in

the defensive wall where Feranis’s legion made its doomed
last stand against an army thirty times its size—though only
a small part was used to besiege the city. The rest
assembles deeper inland on the peninsula highgrounds.
Huge, shadowy forms descend in the storm, their eldritch
contours suggested by spasms of lightning. Not the gilded
might of the Venusian Carthii—which we smashed—but the
Ash Legions of Luna and Earth. The heart of Atalantia’s
loyalist army.
Her forward legions, which took the city, now choke on
their victory. A sizable portion of their force has penetrated
deep into the city, pressing for the mountains, but they are
cut oﬀ from the main host. Thousands clog the waterlogged
lowlands that connect Tyche to the Talarian Peninsula. The
spiderTanks and titans that broke the walls sink in the
mire. Men pile onto hovercraft and into any airship that
dares take ﬂight.
They stand no chance.
As I watch, the sea ripples like a single organism, and
from the gray obscurity of the storm comes a wave that
would make a Europan stop and stare. The tidal wave is a
kilometer tall. It buckles the ﬁrst twenty blocks of the city’s
oceanfront and sweeps uphill toward the mountains, to be
stopped only by elevation just short of the Harper’s Plaza.
The greater body of the wave carries on toward the Ash
Legions in the lowlands. A row of Gold knights in black
armor stands on the peninsula’s rocky heights to watch the
legions below be swallowed by the sea.
A hundred thousand men gone in a moment. I should
rejoice.
But soon Tyche’s population will follow. How many
millions down there? How many millions along the coast?
This will not be isolated mayhem. A chain of tidal waves
will devastate northern Helios. My promise to Glirastes was
broken, but not on my orders.

I pull out the master switch I built in case it all went
wrong. Turning it on is like killing part of myself. I never
thought this moment could come. The moment where Orion
failed me.
She has no intention of leashing the storm. It was to be
my lever. She uses it as a hammer, not to punish just Gold,
but the planet she hates. With seas churned to madness by
the storm generators, a coastline is murdered.
The wind whips around us.
“This is genocide,” Alexandar roars into my ear. I push
him oﬀ.
Orion, what have you done? What did I let you do?
I focus a coms laser out into the gloom to form a direct
line on Orion’s engine, which hovers twenty kilometers
oﬀshore. She appears on my screen. She is breathing
heavily. Her skin is covered in sweat. She kneels in the
center of her circular syncNest from where she guided the
hive mind. Of the six hologram Blues who should surround
her, only one is not dead. He shivers on his knees, blood
sheeting out his nose and ears from a cerebral hemorrhage.
The blast doors of the nest are sealed. She’s locked out my
security teams.
“Orion?” I say. “Orion, can you hear me? If you can hear
me, stick out your right thumb.” Slowly the thumb extends.
“I need to speak with you, Orion. Can you slip from the
sync?” I wait. Nothing happens. Suddenly her eyes open.
Her voice is a faint whisper.
“The dataﬂow was…too much.”
“Orion, we’re on second horizon, going straight for three.
You swore we wouldn’t pass primary. What happened?”
“Four…is desired.” Her eyes close to slits. “Four will
teach them.”
Four is terraforming level. The complete annihilation of
the planet’s surface by storm. Her eyes are nearly closed.

She can’t devote attention to anything beyond the drift
much longer. “Orion, it is Darrow. Listen to me. You must
turn oﬀ the engines. Scale back the storm. Can you do that
for me?”
“They can’t win with Venus alone. So I will take
Mercury.”
“Orion, think of the army. Think of the people. There’s
nearly a billion here.”
“Rats are…complicit…rational transaction.”
“I can stop you.” Her eyes ﬂutter. “I told you I could.
Don’t make me do it.” She no longer replies to me. She is
back in the sync. Without Orion’s input the Storm Gods will
level-oﬀ and avert planetary destruction. But if I sever her
connection, her mind will be lost by the sudden schism. I
look down at the city, back to the hologram of my friend in
the visor. The storm’s death will not be instantaneous. But
the longer I wait, the worse it will get.
I initiate the override.
For a moment, nothing happens.
Then Orion’s body seizes and goes limp.
It happens that fast.
She lies there with her mouth agape. Her bright blue
eyes staring at nothing as they twitch in her head. Her
metal ﬁnger scrapes against the ﬂoor and then goes still. I
swallow a knot in my throat. For ten years no Gold alive,
not their science teams, not the crème of their astral
academies, not their assassins, could kill this woman. She
was a myth. And I turned her oﬀ with the ﬂick of a switch.
She was not ready for this. I felt it, but I could not believe
it. Now Mercury pays.
Numb and quiet inside, I turn oﬀ the hologram, and use
the override to reduce the Storm Gods’ output to zero.
Then I am back in the storm.

The sound of the wind and thunder is tremendous. More
knights have run up to watch the city drown. Alexandar
shouts at his cousin Elandar. The two young Golds point
down at people ﬂooding toward the gravLoop and the Ash
Legions stomping through them to get there themselves.
I try to make sense of the mayhem, and ask myself how
we can help those still trapped in the city. I ﬁnd myself
without an answer. No transport ships could ﬂy in this. We
can’t carry them. We can’t even stay aloft ourselves.
Alexandar jogs to me. “I’ve spoken with Elandar.” Just over
two hundred Golds with the purple griﬀin stamped on their
chests wait behind him, helmets down. “We request
permission to enter the city to lend aid.”
“Permission denied.”
“Sir…”
“There’s nothing you can do down there. Tyche is lost.”
“But its people needn’t be,” he snaps. I turn to Alexandar,
furious that he would contradict me now. “They’re
swarming for the gravLoop—many can still escape under
the mountains. But the Ash Legions in the city know it’s the
only way out. If they reach it, they will mow through the
civilians and use it to evacuate their men, right into
Heliopolis. Again, the knights of House Arcos request
permission to deter them.”
“No.”
“Sir!” I turn to see Rhonna running up the hill in her
Drachenjäger. It kneels so we can speak. She squints into
the wind as her cockpit pops open. Sweat pours down her
face.
“What now?” I ask in exhaustion. She sees the master
switch in my hands. She knows Orion is dead and doesn’t
ﬂinch. So far that makes two who know she’s dead. The
army can’t ﬁnd out, not now. It will break them.

“Boys caught an enemy scout. Fulminata by the looks of
him.”
One of Octavia’s own?
“Bring him to me.”
I peer out over the submerged isthmus to the greater
host of Atalantia’s legions. Those Gold knights are still on
the ridge. I amplify magniﬁcation on two ﬁgures standing
in the foreground. Atalantia’s face peers back at me. She
wears her own optics. She makes a masturbating motion,
then ﬂings the load oﬀ into the wind, shaking her head at
me. I retreat behind the bluﬀ for fear of snipers. If anyone
can shoot straight in this, it’s her Gray dragoons.
My Arcosian Knights throw a man down at my feet. He’s
in Fulminata armor, all right. Here’s hoping…
I pull him up by the hair to ﬁnd the handsome, lean face
of a Gold male in his thirties. Eyes that could have
belonged to the purest of Gold stock—and once did, before
Screwface got ahold of him and gave them to Mickey—
stare back at me.
I pull the man into a hug, careful not to crush him with
my starShell. The Arcosian Knights look more than a little
confused, but only Sevro, my wife, Theodora, and Mickey
knew the details of how we carved the man a new visage
and sent him amongst our enemy as a mole nearly three
years ago. Though I will need to know why he didn’t warn
us of Atalantia’s ambush on Orion’s ﬂeet, I am happy to see
him. I feel safer all of a sudden.
“Screwface, you old psycho,” I say, leaning into him.
Alexandar stiﬀens at the presence of an original Howler.
Rhonna grins. She loves Screwface almost as much as she
loves Freihild, Seﬁ’s personal assassin.
“The name is Horatius au Savag, you fool. As for ‘old.’ ”
Screw gives a little sniﬄe. “I’m nigh on thirty-ﬁve. Savvy,

my goodman?” He cocks out a nasty smile. “Figured you’d
be near Tyche.”
If he burned cover, something bad is on its way. “What’s
happened?”
“Bad news, boss. Heliopolis is under assault.”
I feel a cold inevitability creeping upon me. “What?”
“Twenty legions of the second wave made landfall.
Twenty crashed or had to abort. The storm has delayed
those on the ground, but he’ll likely send a strike force for
the storm engine.”
More than a million men and tanks. “Whose legions?”
“Leopards are at the vanguard.”
“Ajax.”
“I know.”
After Apollonius was captured on Luna, there was a
vacuum in Gold ground command. I wondered who would
rise to ﬁll the Minotaur’s place as their preeminent Legate.
Falthe seemed poised, but Ajax has been making his bid. As
violent as his mother, but twice as ambitious, he will
assault the city till it falls, heedless of casualties. The man’s
a raging beast with the unfortunate danger of also having a
brain.
“Darrow…” Screwface says, stepping close. “What’s
wrong?”
“Orion is dead.”
He looks stunned. For men like him, like me, who have
fought this war since the beginning, there are so few who
inspire us. Orion was that. We are lesser in her absence.
I can’t aﬀord to mourn.
With Tyche drowned and Heliopolis fallen, my army will
have nowhere to retreat. We will be surrounded,
bombarded, and destroyed.

The moment Harnassus predicted has ﬁnally come. I
must choose between saving my army and destroying
theirs. I stare across the drowning city at the Ash Legions
safe inland on the Talarian Peninsula. Atalantia is there.
Trapped by the storm. I can ﬁnd a way to cross, I’m sure.
If Thraxa survives, if the Morning Star made it to her, if
the First Legion still exists, they will give me the power to
destroy Atalantia and her entire Ash Legion, the hard
Lunese core of her army.
It would be the greatest victory of the war.
But it will cost me Heliopolis, and in the end, my army.
The Republic could recover. Gold will not.
Us for them would be the rational transaction.
Orion deemed it worth the price.
Hearing the words of the Ash Lord on my friend’s own
lips haunts me. A rational transaction. I look at the
drowning population of Tyche, who welcomed us even
when Heliopolis spat on us and yet still fell on the wrong
side of one human being’s moral arithmetic. And I see a
spiraling spiritual darkness. Ensnaring not just me, not just
the friends whose cruelty I have emboldened, but Eo’s
darkening dream. Did this all begin with betraying the Sons
of Ares in the Rim? With the destruction of the Ganymede
Dockyards? With my Rain over Mercury? So many
concessions in the name of necessity. So many horrors in
the name of liberty. Where is the beauty I saw when Ragnar
reached for Seﬁ’s hand instead of his blade as he died?
Where has our humanity gone? Is this why Sevro left? He
felt the creep of doom and sought to cling to light?
I let fear drive my hope away. I let war become me, and
my men followed.
Atalantia’s army isn’t worth mine.
If I die, it should not be taking her life. It should be
saving theirs.

“Rhonna, I need you.” Those three words make her ten
meters taller. “You can move in this bloodydamn wind. Take
the fastest two drachens and ﬁnd the Morning Star. Find
Thraxa. Tell them Tyche is lost. Heliopolis is under assault.
They must cross the Ladon to relieve Heliopolis.”
Her mouth hangs open. “You said…”
“I know what I said.”
The Ladon has eaten three of the greatest armies the
worlds have known. Is the fourth I will feed it my own?
“How will they cross the Ladon in this?” Screwface asks.
“The Morning Star will be their stormbreaker. Captain
Pelus is more than capable of the maneuver. If he’s not,
Char may be with them. Tell Thraxa to follow in its shadow.
I’ll take the armor through the mountains along the Kylor
Pass and meet them at Heliopolis. Go.”
Rhonna spares a look to Alexandar, something passes
between them, and she stands to forty meters. “Nice seein’
you, kid!” Screw calls after her as she thunders away.
Now this part.
I take a steady breath and reluctantly turn to face
Alexandar. His eyes still watch Tyche in sorrow.
“Does your request stand?” I ask.
He stiﬀens in surprise. “Yes, sir.”
“There will be no rescue. The sea will come in.”
“Well, I haven’t had a bath in weeks.”
“Why are you doing this?” I ask, searching the strong
bones of his face. “They’re just baked peasants.”
“Even peasants don’t ﬂoat, sir.”
No amount of arrogance can hide the pain in his eyes. He
blames himself for Angelia, perhaps even for this, but it
also tears at him to see the suﬀering in the city. I feared he
wanted to do this for me, to ﬁnd favor in my eyes. All this
time I held a mild disdain for him, because I thought my

approval was all that mattered to the man. But he believes
in the Rising. I see it now, just as I saw this moment
coming. The moment I must choose to spend his life. But he
has surprised me by choosing to spend it himself. I could
not be prouder of the man.
He has become what Lorn should have been. And though
the thought of losing him and Orion in the same hour
nearly drives me to my knees, I nod.
“Very well. Take your knights.”
“Thank you, sir. If you could do me a kindness…” His
bright eyes quest after Rhonna. She’s already disappeared
inland. “Tell her to stop biting her nails. It’s vile.” He
pauses. “And that she was wrong about me.”
On impulse, I pull out my razor and I am about to deliver
him the Peerless scar when he stops my hand. “I know what
I am.”
“Do you?” I reach back to unclasp my wolfcloak from the
ring on my left shoulder. Nearly losing it to the wind, I snap
the clasps onto Alexandar’s mech. He falls to a knee,
looking at it as if it were made all of diamonds. I lift him up.
“Howlers never kneel.”
For once, he has no retort. Especially not when
Screwface steps up to spit in his face to give him a proper
welcome. The wind jams the spit back down his own mouth.
“Bucket and box will have to wait, kid.” Screw shakes his
hand and breaks the wind for us.
“Hold Atalantia as long as you can, then take the last
tram and blow the tunnel behind you. Failing that, blow the
tunnel and make for the mountains.” I strip oﬀ my extra
batteries. Alex pushes them back.
“You must reach Heliopolis, sir.”
He is right, so I keep them. “Then your armor will be
spent before morning, but if you can get to the Kylor Pass,
you can follow it due south and make Heliopolis in two

weeks. I forbid you to die, Howler. I want my cloak back.
Sevro will never let me hear the end of it.”
“Yes, sir.” Resolution makes a thin line of his mouth.
“Hail Reaper.”
I salute him and the knights behind. “Hail Arcos.”
He bows slightly in Screwface’s direction. “An honor, sir.
Big fan.”
I watch from the hill with Screw as Alexandar and his
Martian kin depart. Beset by rain and storm, the famous
knights of Elysium trot down the hill in purple and silver
armor to plunge toward the drowning city. They look like
the last lords and ladies of a doomed age. Two hundred and
three against an army and the sea.
I turn with a heavy heart and head back to my men to
lead them south toward the battle in the desert that will
decide the fate of us all.

***Lysanderthe sound of my starShell’s lowoxygen warning. Seraphina is dead. Her prowess in battle
far outstripped mine, yet I am alive, and she is not.
It feels so unfair. That should not have been the end of
her story.
Just like Cassius’s end.
From a distance, death seems the end of a story. But
when you are near, when you can smell the burning skin,
see the entrails, you see death for what it is. A traumatic
cauterization of a life thread. No purpose. No conclusion.
Just snip.
I knew war was dreadful, but I did not expect to fear it.
How can anyone not, when death is just a blind giant
with scissors?
This will not end well. Dido will sense a devious hand at
work, because she did not see her daughter become a
smear of organs. But Romulus knew. He dreaded this. He
gave his life to stop this, and he failed.
WAKE IN DARKNESS TO

I do not look forward to telling Diomedes. If I even get
the chance.
The last thing I remember is existence breaking in two.
At least that is the sound the sky made when the Storm God
fell to the desert ﬂoor.
It was not Kalindora or Rhone or Cicero whose payload
destroyed the engine. Bitterly contested by the garrison,
my Praetorians made three charges against the teeth of the
enemy railguns. Only on the last did I manage to dispose
my ﬁnal missile into the gravity engines. It was not a
conscious choice to forge ahead alone. An enemy munition
simply destroyed my radio transmitter, so I did not know
my wingmen were dead. Hours later I still do not know
their names.
I feel that is immoral.
I run a diagnostic. My railgun ammunition is depleted.
Little charge remains in the energy core that feeds the
pulseFist, engines, and life support. The starShell is
already sapping power from my pulseArmor to continue to
function. I will have to disconnect soon.
It takes the better part of ﬁve minutes to free myself
from the sand. When I do, I lower my canopy and gasp for
air. The morning smells of petrichor and ozone. It is already
seventy degrees Celsius.
The sun hides behind irradiated clouds. Lightning dances
in the black north. Though I am in a pocket of peace, the
sandstorm still roils in the deep desert. In all directions,
veils of dust shimmy across the landscape like tattered
skirts. Mounds of sand shiver around me as Praetorians
and Scorpions climb their way out of the sand.
It is 0630.
Ajax should be here by now.
Did the storm take him?

What fate has befallen the invasion to the north? Is all
lost to the sea?
As I move to help the Praetorians, my starShell rattles in
protest and freezes as hydraulic ﬂuid pours from the pelvis.
I release the inner latch and climb out. I barely recognize
the war rig I rode down to the planet. Only my pulseArmor
is undented. I check to make sure my Bellona razor is still
in its leg holster. Then I ping Seraphina’s tracking node.
There are no results.
The Ladon has taken the daughter of Romulus.
A bloodﬂy as thick as my thumb pesters my face. I barely
move as it bites and drinks from my neck. I push it against
my skin until it pops.
More buzz nearby. Hundreds.
I follow their current until they make a cloud over
something on the ground. A dying horse. It is a wild
sunblood mare, the most cherished of Mercury’s carved
wonders. Its legs are beyond mangled, and its skin is gone.
Only its orange mane remains untouched by the feasting
ﬂies. Rhone kneels beside it, his starShell discarded in a
dune.
Freed of his own starShell, Cicero saunters over, rubbing
his jaw with his pulseArmor gauntlet. “Oh, pity. A
sunblood.”
Before all else, Praetorians are equestrians. Before they
learn to shoot, they shovel stable stalls. Each is given a
young horse to train while at the ludus. At the end of their
training, they are given a gun and told to kill the horse. The
mindless killers that do are bound for the blackops legions.
Only those that prove themselves loyal to their comrades,
be they beast or man, are trusted to guard the Blood.
Rhone has likely not seen a horse in many years.
“Did you know there were once ﬁfty thousand griﬀin on
Mars?” he asks as he strokes the mare’s forehead.

“Poachers sell their talons and feathers to new money on
Luna. Now there are less than ﬁve hundred.” The horse
jerks as Rhone’s pulseKnife sinks into her brain. “Nothing
beautiful survives the mob.”
The ﬂies continue their feast as he stands.
They will have found Seraphina by now.
Who will they ﬁnd next?
By the look in Rhone’s ﬂinty eyes, I know I am not the
only witness to the horror. “It’s just a wild mare. There’re
thousands out here,” Cicero says. “My stallion, Blood of
Empire, makes that one look like a pony.”
I turn to him until he leaves, muttering about the Lunese.
I look back at the horse, seeing Seraphina in its place for
some reason.
“Did you know her well, the Raa?” Rhone asks.
“Not as well as she deserved, I believe. She thought little
of me, truth be told.”
Kalindora marches up. She looks at the sky. “Ajax is late.
Praetorian, report.”
By Rhone’s count, our casualties were ninety-four. Thirty
dead, the rest missing or injured. Of the nine hundred
Praetorians left, only thirty starShells are still operational.
Cicero’s force is slightly larger, but bore more of the
casualties.
“Shell cannibalized the pulseArmor power,” Rhone
continues as I walk with him amongst the Praetorians.
“Over seventeen hours of sustained engagement, and that
wind.” He shakes his head. “Only thirty-three have juice for
boot liftoﬀ. It’ll be a hike.” The Gray Praetorian squints
south. Few features interrupt the arid playa. “We can make
it.”
Cicero laughs from the nearby dune. He slides down it
like a child to come to a sitting posture in front of us.

“My goodman, loath though I am to contradict a soldier
of your stature, this is my desert. Any man whose boots are
dead will die here unless the shuttles come. Without
cooling, your pulseArmor will become an oven. How much
is left in your water reserves? A third? We are kitted for
heavy combat in the north, not the fucking Ladon.” He
sighs. “But do you really suspect something they call the
Eater of Armies is to be anything less than an eater of
fucking armies?” He glares at me and stands. “Where the
hell is that reprobate Ajax anyhow?” Manmade thunder
rumbles to the south. “Ah, so he’s begun without us. That
muscled, walking penis.”
I ask Rhone if the coms are still down.
He nods. “Orbit’s no go.” He gestures to a group of
Praetorians atop the Storm God. “But we’re boosting our
signal with a ﬁeld array. Should be able to reach Iron
Leopard command in a few minutes.”
“What the devil is she doing over there?” Cicero squints
at Kalindora. She stands on a dune to the west, looking out
at the dust-veiled deep desert. “Composing poetry?”
I use precious suit energy to join her.
I call her name as I land. She motions me to be quiet and
cocks her head to the wind. Dust sprays as Cicero lands as
well. “Do you hear that?” she asks.
“No,” he says. “Is it the planet asking why House Lune
hid the Storm God from their vaunted ally?”
“Shut up, Cicero.”
“Only because I’m thirsty.”
I join her on a knee and listen. Granules of sand clink
against my armor. A lizard’s tiny claws crackle as he moves
shadow to shadow. Thunder rumbles in the north. Wind
whispers around me, whistling through the boulders,
through my armor. It carries the sounds of distant
machines.

I bolt to my feet.
Someone moves within the storm.
“Those are Drachenjäger footfalls,” Kalindora says.
“Oh dear,” Cicero says. He backs up. “Time to go.”
Searching the waste around us, I don’t know how we can.
Dunes and the storm to north and east. Flat hardpan to the
south. The eastern mountains are the closest cover, but the
machines move between us and them. Except for the
downed Storm God, there is no refuge for our men on foot.
Nor can we bear the weight of all their armor. It would take
ten minutes to get everyone out of their suits. Far too long.
We burst back to the Praetorians and land where Rhone
has set up his coms tower on the hull of the Storm God.
There’s a gargling sound as the signal connects. Ajax’s
voice is washed in static. His face warps in and out.
“Lysander? I see you seized the moment. I had no doubt
you would. Octavia would be proud.” His voice mocks me.
“Where’s our evac?” I snap. “We have inbound enemy
armor. Our shells are dead. Our mobility—”
“It doesn’t seem long ago that we were last in New
Sparta, does it?”
“Ajax, we need evac, do you register?”
“I looked forward to those winters on Grandfather’s
estate more than anything. Believe me when I say that. You
were less serious there, away from the old crone. There
was no one to impress. Not until Grandfather took us
hunting and left us in the bush. He told us to race back.”
His eyes narrow. “You remember. Of course you do. You
remember everything.”
Kalindora’s face falls as she understands. Cicero’s face
becomes a mask of utter contempt. I hold out hope that it is
not what it seems.

“You remember how I begged you not to leave me behind
because I sprained my ankle. Didn’t really. I was just afraid
of being left alone, because you were always so sure where
you were going. If it was just us, you would have helped
me. But you had to win, didn’t you? You had to show them
that you were worthy of being the Heir of Silenius.” His lips
curl back from his teeth. “You left me behind. It took me
three days to ﬁnd my way back. And when I did,
Grandfather wouldn’t even let me join the dinner table
because I was…unwashed. You found me crying behind the
stables. You’d brought me your own food and you sat with
me and do you remember what you said?”
“Ajax…”
“ ‘You really must learn your navigations, Ajax.’ ”
“I see.” The silence between us is cold and ﬁnal and
mutually understood. “Is this your choice or Atalantia’s?”
“Mine. I will mourn for you, little brother, but I will not
step aside. This is my time. Give Kalindora my apologies,
but she chose poorly.” He pauses, no mockery in his voice.
“Should the Void take you, celebrate, my brother. For
before death, there was glory.”
The link drops.
I stand rooted to the spot. I thought if betrayal came, it
would come from Atalantia. Not Ajax. I saw the signs, but I
chose to believe in a friend. What a pity for us both. For all
those memories to come to this.
Is this how Cassius felt?
“I am to die for a brotherly feud,” Cicero spits. “This is
utterly…Venusian.”
Rhone speaks in a tight whisper. “My liege, we can
evacuate you south via air.”
“And how many men could we take?” I ask.
“Less than a third.”

I search the Praetorians on the ground beneath as they
attempt to leech energy from downed starShells. They
came for me. To save my life, I would have to abandon six
hundred of them.
I search for some alternative, and ﬁnd only one. “I would
know the names of my wingmen on the third charge.”
“Flavius ti Vessia and Charon ti Occipiter.”
I repeat the names as the sound of the enemy machines
grows louder. “What would Octavia do?” I ask.
Rhone says nothing.
“She would run,” Kalindora replies with a blank
expression.
“A ﬁne idea,” Cicero says. “Let’s.”
I stare into the dust. “If that is the measure of our loyalty
to our men, perhaps we deserve to die.”
Kalindora tilts her head at me.
“Are you mad?” Cicero’s narrow eyes go wide.
Rhone steps forward. “My liege, you are—”
“Not a Sovereign. Not anything really.” I grimace. “But I
will not live while men sworn to me die. I know the risk
they took in coming here.” Kalindora gives me a nod of
surprised approval. “Rhone, prepare the Praetorians as you
see ﬁt. The enemy won’t be long.”
This is not how Rhone thought it would be, but he holds
his salute for an extra second before hopping down to his
men. “I will not die here,” Cicero says. “Your boots have
juice, you fool. Enough to get you to Heliopolis!”
“Go if you must, Cicero. I abandoned the Praetorians
before. I will not do so again.”
He comes within an inch of my face. “They say a strain of
madness runs through the gens Lune. Oh, how right they
are. Farewell, ye infected victims of the martial disease.”
Cicero takes to the air without a word of apology to his men

who cannot follow. Two dozen ﬂy with him. More than
twelve hundred watch their leader go and look down at
their depleted armor.
I remain with Kalindora atop the Storm God as the
enemy machines groan and rattle within the dust. I close
my eyes, seeking my mother’s face. Even now in the
darkness, I cannot ﬁnd her.
I feel so alone. Then I hear Kalindora draw her razor.
“Lysander.”
When I open my eyes, a single ﬁgure emerges from the
dust less than a kilometer away. A desiccated rag ﬂaps from
his shoulder. He spots us on the Storm God and thrusts his
hand up into the profane crux.
Only a few of his words reach us. “…heart beats like a
drum…”
The scout disappears and a moment later the sound that
has plagued my dreams from the Palatine to the Belt ﬁnds
me in the desert waste. The sound could only come from a
legion escorting the Reaper.
The howling of wolves.
Ahhhroooooooooooooooooo
Kalindora goes still.
He should be in the north, pinned in by Atalantia’s
legions. Not a thousand kilometers south. Not here. How
could they still have power? How could they cross so much
distance when we barely made it a hundred kilometers into
the hypercane’s headwinds before draining our suits?
Kalindora’s awed voice answers the unspoken question.
“He rode the storm.”
—
The wait for Darrow is not long, but it is horrid. My eyes
sting from the heat. It radiates up from the metal hull we

perch upon. My nose ﬁlls with the fumes of machines, the
dry lifelessness of the desert, and smoke.
The enemy emerges from the dust like a line of
mechanized Mongols. A depleted legion of ﬁlthy metal
Drachenjägers carried by the winds of the storm trudges
over the crest. They are not so numerous as they sounded. I
glance over at Rhone. A grin spreads on his face. With the
high ground and an entrenched position, we might yet
survive this.
Kalindora thinks otherwise.
My tongue tastes the chalky roof of my mouth and feels
the contours of my teeth. I tense my hand around my razor.
It feels small in the pulseArmor gauntlet. I raise my helm.
Ahhhroooooooooooooooooo
“Stay with the heir,” Kalindora says to Rhone. Thirtythree Praetorians with life yet in their starShell cores
cluster tight around me atop the downed Storm God’s
highest perch. Nearly two thousand Scorpions and
Praetorians shelter in ﬁring lines along the rim of the
broken engine below.
It begins in silence, and then comes the terriﬁc clamor of
four wedges of Drachenjägers thundering across the
desert. Their armored legs, each twice as tall as a
starShell, eat up the distance. Guided antipersonnel
missiles slither toward us. Interceptors race to challenge
them. Depleted uranium rounds hammer through the
wreckage around our position like it’s cheesecloth.
Praetorians ﬁre back from prone positions all along the rim
of the Storm God. There are no better sharpshooters in all
the legions. A drachen teeters sideways and explodes.
Another runs oﬀ at an oblique angle as its pilot is shot
through the cockpit.
With a heavy anti-tank riﬂe, Rhone ﬁres down at the
plain.

I scan the charging Drachenjägers. Darrow won’t be in
one of those rigs. He likes mobility. Where is he? I turn
around to search our ﬂanks for Darrow. As a boy, I watched
him become a leader. I’ve studied him more than any other
man. I know his trade, but that knowledge seems so useless
here in the chaos of battle. There are only four directions,
but Darrow has used so many tactics over the years, I
freeze. It feels like he could come from anywhere.
I spot shadows moving in the dust cloud kicked up by the
Drachenjägers’ charge. “He’s using them to obscure his
movements,” I say to Kalindora. “Like at the Battle of
Gibraltar. With a frontal sally we can hit him when he
swings to a ﬂank.”
“I concur. Prepare to charge,” Kalindora tells the
Praetorians. StarShell pulseFists whine as my men shunt
their remaining core power to their weapons and their
boots. The heat of the desert invades my suit.
On Kalindora’s signal, we break from our position,
bursting upward into the sky and ricocheting forward,
headlong toward the shadows over the charging
Drachenjägers. Then something ripples above in the sky.
A Praetorian’s body comes apart beside me, bisected
cleanly at the waist. I lift my razor just in time. Something
clangs against it, knocking me downward. The air contorts
above as men in ghostCloaks shear down through the
center of my charging Praetorians. I shoot point-blank at a
blur and see the light bend as the railgun round goes
through a man’s chest. He spins downward, his wolfcloak
rippling.
I see the play too late to stop it. Darrow baited us with
the shadows, and ﬂanked our aerial charge by sending a
small group around to hit us as we forsook our position.
They cleave through us.
I pivot in the air to witness slaughter behind me.

The world slows as I see him amidst my men. The
camouﬂage withering away to reveal a hurricane in
battered crimson pulseArmor, a white razor sparking as it
carves through a Praetorian’s starShell to sever half his
neck.
I burst toward the Reaper and am smashed sideways as I
collide with another body. Kalindora shields me from an
armored man’s pulseﬁre. Rhone mows him down. I try to
rally the left wing of my men, but it is a slaughter. And at
the center of it swirls a god of death. The ﬁghter’s helmet
ﬂashes. Around his body whirls that famous Gold-killing
blade.
As violence reaches for him, Darrow does not ﬂinch like a
man; he reaches like a covetous river. He pulls violence to
him, drinks it into his current, and leaps around the
battleﬁeld with a seemingly mindless capriciousness.
Which, when inspected, illuminates the genius of his
violence. He herds us together, making sure we are tight
and compact so that our options constrict and his men’s
expand.
It is something you can only understand when you feel
dread sinking into you when you realize you’re between the
claws of a trap, and they’re about to close. You feel
surprised that it was so easy to trick you. Surprised that
this is how it happens. All those years of preparing,
reviewing battles, correcting others. It doesn’t feel like we
fell into a trap. It feels almost accidental, yet still
inevitable. I feel small and stupid.
“Kill the Reaper!” I shout as I plunge for him, Kalindora
at my right, Rhone and three others at my left. We cut
through two Rising knights and then, as if smelling the
murder on our minds, Darrow, without even looking, jolts
backward toward us at a surprising angle.
A Praetorian’s head splits in half. Rhone is knocked from
the sky. Kalindora’s left arm spins from her body. My own

razor arcs forward toward Darrow’s turned head and ﬁnds
only air as he performs some aerial alchemy and bends,
ﬂoating upward, only to shoot back down.
His razor slashes at me as he ﬂies past. I parry, but the
force is incredible. I feel a blazing pain in my arm. I’m
struck again as he backhands me like a child with his
blade. The razor cuts through my gravBoots and I plummet
from the sky.
I slam down onto the hardpan, but do not lose
consciousness. I stare up in my broken armor. Metal men
dance against the crackling clouds. Bodies fall like dying
metal birds, leaking blood and machine ﬂuid. The Reaper is
already passing on, leaving the leftovers for his men.
A starShell crashes down atop me, pinning me down.
Another slams into the sand. I feel heat on my right cheek
and turn just enough to see a downed shell’s broken boot
thruster sputtering ﬂame against my helmet. I panic and
shove in vain. Heat grows as it melts through the armor
from the side. I shout and scramble, but I go nowhere as
the heat intensiﬁes and a hole opens in the right side of my
helmet. My skin begins to itch. I ﬂail, overcome with dread.
The itch becomes agony. My right eyebrow curls as it
burns. The epidermis begins to bubble and peel away. Fire
reaches down to the dermis, shrinking it and splitting it
open as fat leaks out and feeds the ﬂames.
The wolf howls fade in the distance. The ﬂames eat my
eye.
Only then do I begin to scream.

***DarrowWe brush away light resistance
at the downed Storm
God. Without bothering to complete the kills, we head for
Heliopolis. Behind us, we leave the enemy grounded or
dying. Radioactive dust drifts south to dim the sun. Soon
another sandstorm swallows the daylight entirely.
Visibility shrinks, masking but not slowing our approach
on Heliopolis. When we emerge on Ajax’s rear, will it be to
a conquered city? Will we be alone against ten legions? Will
our own guns be turned to be used against us? Or will the
Morning Star have somehow shepherded my army through
the Waste?
I can only hope, just as I hope Alexandar is not drowned
beneath the sea.
Forward. Forward. One foot after the other.
Our Drachenjägers have barely an hour of charge left.
My starShell is dead in the desert. Half the others managed
to save energy by riding the drachen through the storm. All
trudge on their own now. We hold on to sanity by a thread.

Our water ran out in the night. Our ammunition is low.
Stims power our senses and keep us from succumbing to
the side eﬀects of either the anti-rads or the radiation itself,
but they have hollowed our cores. Twenty-four hours
engaged with the enemy. How many days awake does that
make it for me now? Six? Seven?
I could not sleep in the passage despite my perch on the
Drachenjäger.
The night was hell and howling wind and avalanches so
frequent we had to abandon the pass and risk the desert.
Blackness was our master. Static and sand and gargling
radiometers narrated our endless nightmare. Orion’s storm
no longer escalates, but it has run wild without her
focusing its wrath.
Two sandstorms swallowed a third of our number. The
rest, including myself, face cellular decay from fallout. I
puke again into my cockpit. The catch is full. The vomit
laced with blood. It leaks down into the cracks to trickle
over my armored legs. My head pounds. Eyeballs aching at
their roots. My symptoms are minor compared with the
Grays, Blues, and our remaining Obsidians. Some have
already succumbed to delirium as their DNA unwinds. Only
the Reds and Golds hold strong.
I just want rest. I just want water. And to sleep.
Forward. Forward. Forward.
The morning is the color of bronze when we come upon
the Graveyard of Tyrants. Harnassus dumped the monoliths
the Golds built to honor seven centuries of Sovereigns in
the desert. The giant statues lie on their backs as sand
swirls around them. A skirmish was fought amidst them.
Waves of sand lap at the half-submerged and smoldering
carcasses of war machines.
The debris ﬁeld thickens. Phantoms move through the
dust. Lone infantrymen without clothes and covered in

blood walk past us. We cannot tell their tribe. Blackened
husks sit cross-legged in the sand. A desert hyenadile
gnaws at a dead man, looks at us, fans the threat-wings on
its neck, and ﬂees as an artillery shell detonates nearby.
War machines scream and groan in the distance. Their
shadows ﬂit through the gloom, growing more substantial
with every step.
It is like emerging from one dream into another.
I draw what remains of my force up on a hill with a view
of the storm wall of Heliopolis. Our ﬂanks secured by a
sheer mountain façade, I survey the siege with Screwface.
My heart sinks.
Heliopolis has fallen.
With the desert Storm God down, the storm has lost its
direction. It sweeps eastward. Ajax’s army ﬁghts in the
sunshine.
Acrid smoke rises from huge gashes in the storm wall.
Iron Leopard and Fulminata shock troops claw through
gaps three hundred meters from the ground. Tanks roll into
canyons bored through the durosteel by particle cannons. A
ﬁreﬁght rages on the ramparts of the wall, where a thin
gap exists between the wall and shield. Her great guns are
silent. Harnassus may already be dead.
If they take the city, if they take down her shield
generators, the Ash armada can reinforce them, and lower
torchShips and Annihilo herself across the south. My army
will come out of the desert after surviving the storm and be
met with oblivion.
Screwface understands. “I’ll scout forward and see
where we should hit.” He jumps oﬀ the ledge to cross the
boulder ﬁeld below in small bursts.
I turn back to my men.
They can hear the battle if not see it. Less than a third of
the force that set out for Tyche joins me on the hill. Many

lie dead in the Plains of Caduceus, or were swept away by
water or wind on our path to Tyche. Alexandar is gone.
Rhonna and Colloway sent into the storm. It has been
nearly twenty-four hours since I’ve seen Thraxa. Only Felix
is left amongst my Gold Howlers.
I feel the despair.
“Where is the Morning Star?” a Green pilot asks. His hair
has already started to fall out. His mech is smoothed by
sand like a river stone. Does his gun even work?
“It is on its way,” I say. “We must buy Harnassus time.
One last charge of metal. I will—”
The Green’s head disappears. Screaming munitions slam
into my men from above with pinpoint accuracy. A depleted
uranium round gouges a hole through my armor and
punches through the meat of my right hamstring. I go down
hard.
Spitting dust from my mouth, I watch as shrouded
ﬁgures in billowing desert cloaks fall from a cliﬀ hundreds
of meters above. Bursts of air come from their skipBoots,
cushioning them as they land on my Drachenjägers’ open
cockpits to drive razors through the top of my pilots’ skulls,
or land behind them to scalp oﬀ their faces or claim their
heads. I can’t tell if Felix goes down.
In less than ten seconds, I am the only one alive except
for a pilot they pull from his cockpit to vivisect on the
shoulder of his own mech.
Rough hands cut me from my starShell and drag me out.
Men with masks of child’s faces tear oﬀ my gravBoots. The
pilot screams above me. A boot stands on my throat as the
man in the Pale Mask treads the sand to squat in front of
me. They pour engine solvent on my face to clean oﬀ the
blood. A hunched Obsidian with giant sunburnt arms looms
with a blowtorch.
“It’s him,” a heavy Obsidian voice conﬁrms.

“Gratitude, Falthgar.” The Fear Knight takes oﬀ his
gloves and puts them in a pocket of his scorosuit. It is a
simple radiation-resistant and water reclamation suit. No
armor for this impaler of men. No vestments of rank or
gaudy embellishments. His cloak is tattered and eaten by
the desert. His forearms cracked and baked brown. His
gloveless hands pallid and thin as spider legs. He leaves his
mask on. It is the face of a sexless child ringed with hair of
serpents. No matter which way he turns his head, the
child’s eyes stay focused on me. The Pale Mask.
“You asked me a question long ago,” the mask warbles.
“It was on Mars before we lost her. You asked, what do I
fear? I fear a man who believes in good. For he can excuse
any evil.” He holds up a hand to feel the wind. “What have
you done?”
I try to spit on him, but there is no moisture in my mouth.
“Show me your face!”
“Fear has no face.” His head tilts. “You still don’t
understand. No matter. Falthgar, Ravan, Kestril, Thorhand,
Kaﬀa. You have the cameras for his wife?” Five of his
hunting beasts step forward. “Prime. Castrate him. Fuck
him bloody in the ravine.” He pauses. “Before you slit his
throat, feed him his cock.”
“Yes, dominus.”
Animalistic fear. I struggle in vain against the huge
Obsidians. They lift me as if I were a Red again and drag
me toward the ravine behind my slaughtered men. The
Fear Knight sits in the sand to watch them rape me as
Heliopolis falls.
Not like this. Not like this.
The slaveknights toss me to the ground and shove my
face in the sand as the rest watch. A boot pins my head
down. I can barely breathe as they discuss how to cut oﬀ
my armor, and then who will go ﬁrst. A scorosuit buckle

tinkles as it is unclasped behind me. A growing nausea and
terror and…lightness. The hand that pushes on my head
loses its strength. I twist my head. Grains of sand trickle
upward. The Obsidian’s white hair ﬂoats in a corona. A
shadow creeps across the sand. They try to push me down,
only to ﬂoat upward themselves. A horrible laugh bubbles
out of me as a voice ﬁlled with static sings over my open
com.
“If your heart beats like a drum, and your leg’s a little
wet, it’s ’cause Midnight’s come to collect a little debt.”
“You pricklicks,” I hiss through the sand. “You forgot
Colloway xe Char.”
With all my might, I shove oﬀ the ground. Combined,
they weigh more than a ton in their gear, but in the gravity
shadow of the moonBreaker, there is no weight. We launch
upward. The sudden reversal confuses their equilibrium.
They held me down with boots and pressure but had no
clean grip. They try to invert themselves to grab at me, but
only turn themselves into a spin. I ﬂoat cleanly away,
waiting till a boot spins past my head. I seize it and jerk
down, levering the top of my skull into the bottom of a jaw.
It shatters. I pin the larger man to myself and headbutt his
face until I feel it cave in. Dizzy, I strip his long knife and
ride his body to the ground, where I launch up to the next.
Blood in my eyes, I can barely see. He tries to orient
himself. But I’ve played more in zero-G. I pass him without
touching, drawing the long knife along his body and
opening his torso from groin to throat. Two of the others
ﬁre at me, and suﬀer the consequences of recoil. They
become minor threats. The last, ﬁve meters away, pulls his
gun, but the movement itself sends his body spinning
backward. I throw the knife and suﬀer the spin.
I crash upside down into a rock wall. My armor crunches
and I hold on backward. I try to orientate myself. The Fear
Knight saw me kill his men from only ﬁfteen paces away,

but only just escaped the clutter of his ﬂoating men. He
uses his boots to burst toward me, sliding sideways through
the air, his long riﬂe aiming for my head through the
ﬂoating mechs. He ﬁres. Then gravity returns. A falling
mech intercepts his shot. His men slam downward as the
Morning Star bursts out of the shroud of dust that hangs
over the desert. It boosts upward and roars past toward
Heliopolis. I nearly lose purchase on the rock and fall to my
death as blinding light explodes from the battered
moonBreaker to wipe away an entire cohort of enemy
tanks.
A wall of iron churns over the desert to the northeast,
appearing out of the shadow of the Morning Star and its
own shroud of dust.
The First Army has come to Heliopolis.
It passed through the Waste of Ladon in the night,
through a path paved in the storm by the Morning Star.
Most of her cannons have been mangled by the storm, but
ripWings pour out of the moonBreaker, followed by
starShells, transports, and barges of infantry. A great
howling ﬁlls the air. A magniﬁcent dusty ﬁgure in a
streaming wolfcloak and bearing a warhammer falls from
the sky.
The Fear Knight looks up at Thraxa au Telemanus in fullcharged wargear, looks at me, takes aim, and then
disappears in a missile strike. Thraxa catches me before my
ﬁngers give out on the rock face. She ﬂoats me down to the
ground, kissing my face with her fox helmet.
“You beautiful bastard. Rhonna found us. The Star paved
our way. You beautiful genius. You sick, twisted god.”
A quaking of fear enters my chest, and then warps into
fury as I think of how they nuked my men, cut their throats,
pushed my face in the dirt. Feed me my cock, will they?
I push Thraxa oﬀ. “I need boots. StarShell. Ammo.”

“And this, sir,” a voice says. Rhonna skims toward us with
my slingBlade. Her mech is gone. “Found it in the sand.” I
catch it in the air. Thraxa pats her hammer with a smile.
“Shall we?”
—
The battle tips with the coming of the Morning Star, but
with most of her cannons damaged, it does not end. She
diﬀuses her gravity shadow, and hangs over the battle to
serve as a support platform. The bulk of the killing lasts
well into the mid-afternoon. Temperatures swell to 190
degrees Fahrenheit, where resting a naked hand on metal
will blister the skin in half a second. The bloodiest of the
ﬁghting takes place at this miserable hour, and it is then
that the Iron Leopards’ armored line ﬁnally breaks. With
the mighty main corps ﬁnding nowhere to retreat, the
infantry is pressed against the broken walls of Heliopolis
and butchered.
The bodies stack ﬁve meters high. Infantry choke the
giant ﬁssures in the wall. Tanks roll over them in the smoke
and their desperation to escape. Many suﬀocate in the
press or drown in mud made of blood, urine, and coolant
ﬂuid mixing with the dust.
Those who manage to escape the First Army leak into the
city, where they are hunted down by Harnassus’s enraged
defenders, the sky rangers, and the aerial infantry
dropping from the Morning Star.
I cannot stop the bloodshed. Nor do I stop my own.
Wild and driven mad by the atomic bombardment, the
storm, and the desert crossing, my men descend the moral
ladder to become demons, severed of any creed they once
possessed. The butchery is staggering. Those of the enemy
unlucky enough to be cornered can do little but add their
corpses to the bulwarks of the dead.

Still they refuse to surrender.
I have never seen such valor. If it is not that, it must be
madness.
The Terran legions refuse to yield. They retreat, rally,
retreat, rally. Ajax stokes them to a fevered mania. He
roams the lines, always just out of my reach. Always
sallying forth. Time and again they leak through our assault
so that I feel like a man rushing between cracks in a dam
trying to hold back a ﬂood with his bare ﬁngers.
I range across the thirty-kilometer front, everywhere and
nowhere. I blunt a tank breakout on the western ﬂank,
exchange starShells at the foothills of the Hesperides after
taking a round to the chest. I chase Gray riﬂemen into the
jagged hoodoos of the Aigle Mountains to the east. I ﬁght
two Obsidian berserkers until they crawl legless toward me
still swinging their axes. I stiﬂe a counterattack of Gray
heavy infantry and take respite and water in the shade cast
by a crashed torchShip before abandoning my fourth
starShell of the day. Few remain operational. Those that do
drain their energy cores before the sun begins to set—a full
thirty-eight hours after the battle began.
When Ajax is left alone with a cadre of his personal guard
after attempting a breakout, he ﬁnds himself cut oﬀ. When
he sees me coming, he ﬁnally takes ﬂight with a ﬁfty-strong
core of Peerless. A cry of mockery goes through my legions.
I set oﬀ in pursuit, but my boots have little energy left.
Thraxa likewise only makes it ﬁve klicks before doubling
back to see me exchanging my gravity boots. She sits down
in the shade of the tank beside me and sifts through a stack
of battery spikes, inserting one at a time to rebuild her
pulseArmor’s charge.
“Fuckin’ snakeshit,” she growls in disappointment. “I
wanted that Grimmus head.”
A munition slams into the top of the tank above our
heads, and skitters into the sky to detonate. We barely look.

“Atalantia might demand it from him after this,” I say.
I wait for her to ﬁnish oﬀ the last bat spike. She picks up
her gore-spattered hammer. “Ready?”
“Was waiting on you.”
None keep up with me the entire battle, not even Thraxa
or Screwface. I rotate bodyguards by the hour, surviving oﬀ
stims injected into the neck or snorted from smashed
cartridges or chewed with my cracked molars. The world is
thin and two-dimensional, color leached like a faded mural
in the ruins of a child’s bedroom. My body is lead. The cells
leeched of energy. Stims doing nothing but thinning my
patience. The restraint that keeps me from sobbing or
laughing maniacally is only as substantial as porcelain.
As the sun begins to set, I hitch a ride on a transport
missing its back half to the top of the storm wall.
There I watch the spasms of the desert storm. Waves of
sands blanket the fallen. The ranks of the dead stretch
farther than the eye can see. My hysterical mind wanders.
For a delusional moment I believe the planet knows how far
those boys and girls are from home and thinks they are
asleep, so it sends them blankets of sand to tuck them in
for the night.
A tight pain squeezes my chest. The breath goes out of
me. Flanked by exhausted bodyguards, I hunch there on
the shriveled husk of a broken gun. Harnassus arrives on
the wall with a dozen lieutenants in tow. He stares at me as
if I were inside out. “Here you bloody are! I’ve crossed the
entire front,” he barks. “They must have released
psychotropic gas. Every single man I spoke to swears on
his mother that he saw you. Where have you been?”
“Everywhere,” Screwface growls from my side.
Harnassus looks confused. He looks ragged. A nasty gash
on his forehead leaks blood.
“Report,” I rasp. His eyes narrow.

“Darrow, your hand.”
I look down at my naked left hand. My gauntlet broke, it
seems. My skin is bubbling against the sun-heated metal. I
pull it away and watch the blisters contract. Ah, there’s the
pain.
Harnassus babbles something about the enemy rallying
at the Hippodrome, and a force of enemy tanks lost in the
storm now approaching. I try to reply, but my raw vocal
chords ﬁnally surrender to the abuse of the day.
Harnassus blinks. Something frightens him. As if he saw
a spider on my face. I look down at my arms and legs. A
second skin of clay made from blood and dust and
irradiated ash coats me. My armor is holed and melted into
the cauterized wounds. Joints failing to respond to my
depleted battery. The tightness will not let go of my chest.
“By Jove, man, are you having a heart attack?”
Harnassus calls for a medicus. The Howlers rush to support
me as I nearly tip over. I fail to push them oﬀ. Rhonna
comes to my aid, understanding my distress.
“Not in front of the legions,” she says. “What do you
need, Uncle?”
“Stims,” I mumble.
“How many pops has he had?”
“Thigh pack’s empty. At least six.”
“Got four marks on his neck.”
“Ten? That would kill a bloodydamn horse.”
“Stims,” I mutter again, feeling dizzy.
“You’ll die, you dumb bastard.” Harnassus looks about to
fall over himself.
“Men trapped in…desert…” I look out over the
battlements. I still have work to do. I look down to see
Harnassus trying to push me back.

“Darrow. Stop.” Harnassus reaches high to grab my face
between his hands. “You’ve done enough. Let us carry the
rest.”
I stare through the wisps of his hair to the bodies melted
into the steel of the wide parapet. They look like gargoyles
with the faces of teenagers. The wind licks the dust from
them. They are teenagers.
The full weight of exhaustion settles on me.
“Who has a boot battery?” Rhonna calls. “Come on. You,
hey, shithead. Gimme.” She takes the batteries from one of
Harnassus’s bodyguards and switches mine out. “Uncle,
you need to ﬂy now. Do you understand me? For your men.”
“He can’t even stand,” Harnassus says. “He needs a
medicus and an airlift.”
“Back oﬀ,” Screwface says.
“Who are you?”
“Screwface.”
“Bullshit.”
“He is,” Rhonna says. “Mickey.”
“Oh. Well, I am in command now, Gold,” Harnassus says.
“Darrow needs—”
“Unless you got a cloak, he ain’t your pack. He’s been
mine since I was sixteen. You’ve got a battle to ﬁnish, sir.”
Harnassus walks up to him and sticks a ﬁnger in his face.
“Get him inside somewhere and keep that man alive.”
“Man?”
Screwface
laughs.
“Hic
est
Lupus,
motherfucker.”
Harnassus departs.
“Use my arm, Uncle.” I feel Rhonna take my weight. She
can’t handle all of it. Screwface comes to my other side.
“Got you, boss. Nice and easy. Just a little drama and
you’re done, yeah?”

With my surviving Howlers around me, we take to the air.
The ragged army pouring into the city roars in a weary
wave as they see our tattered wolfcloaks soaring toward
the Mound of Votum. When we reach the Mound, the
Howlers set me down near the top of the sand-covered
steps. Armed men swarm the plaza below, bringing the
wounded to the triage stations. Titan cannons boom near
the spaceport.
I cannot walk under my own power, but my Howlers
cluster around me so tight it appears as if I am unwounded.
Dying men call my name. I stop when I can, but soon
Screwface and Rhonna haul me away to the Votum family’s
reception chamber. It alone provides privacy. Under
defaced Gold statues, I collapse on the stone stairs, too
tired and wounded for my Howlers to dare strip oﬀ my
armor. A medicus visits. I don’t know him. I threaten his life
if he tries to make me sleep. Screwface threatens his balls
if I die. Rhonna pats his shoulder. The medicine the man
administers eases the tension in my chest. I am numb with
exhaustion, but I watch through the triangular hole in the
ceiling as night falls. Screams and gunshots and wailing
machines leak in from the darkness.
In the early hours of the night, there is a commotion in
the hall outside. Screwface goes to check on it. Rhonna sits
on the steps below me, not speaking, a gun in her lap even
though Howlers keep watch all around the building. Blood
clots on the right side of her head. The great double doors
swing inward and Harnassus and Colloway enter. Thraxa au
Telemanus stomps in behind them, brown with dust and
blood, her armor holed like cheesecloth. She throws a
bundle of Gold standards on the ﬂoor. Dozens more
legionnaires ﬁle in behind her, each hauling an armful of
enemy standards, some with Gold gauntlets still gripping
their poles. They pile them until the stack is even taller

than Thraxa herself. She slams her heels together, raises
her burned ﬁst, and declares, “Victory.”

It is easier to ﬁnd men who will volunteer
to die, than to ﬁnd those who are willing
to endure pain with patience.
—JULIUS CAESAR

***VirginiaI stare half blind into a ﬁring squad of ﬂy-eyed cameras.
Out the viewport behind me, battle stations and ships of
war ﬂoat beyond the upper atmosphere of Luna.
Eight billion eyes watch me.
“Citizens of the Republic, this is your Sovereign. I come
to you with dire news from aboard the SRN dreadnought
Echo of Ares. On Friday evening last, the third day of the
Mensis Martius, I received a brief from the brave men and
women of the Republic Reconnaissance Division. This brief,
gleaned from our human and mechanical network of
sensors, telescopes, scout ships, and informants throughout
the Core, indicated that a large-scale Society military
operation was under way in the orbit of Mercury. The
largest in materiel and manpower since the Battle of Mars,
ﬁve long years ago. I considered it in the public interest
that this information be kept secret until a resolution was
found.

“The darker heart of me feared it would be my part to
announce the greatest military disaster in our short but
storied history. I thought—and many studied minds, civilian
and military alike, agreed—that the whole of the Republic
Expeditionary Force would be shattered by orbital
bombardment, fractured into isolated centuries, and
decimated by artillery, disease, starvation, and thirst. That
the Free Legions, the beating heart of this great human
enterprise, which has broken the chains on Luna, Earth,
and Mars, and around which we were to build future
legions of liberty, would perish under an Iron Rain in the
deserts and mountains of Mercury.
“Now I stand before you with that precious word on my
lips. Victory. Attacked from all sides, bombarded from the
sky, unsupported by warships or satellites, outnumbered by
the enemy air force ten to one, the Free Legions shattered
the pride of the enemy host, encircled and destroyed most
of their vanguard against the walls of Heliopolis, and, in the
face of overwhelming odds, survived. That is victory—
resounding, but not eternal.
“Now is not the time to congratulate ourselves, or claim
we are responsible for this miracle. We are responsible only
for this crisis. Lured by the false promises of an enemy
plenipotentiary, we allowed our resolve to weaken. We
allowed ourselves to believe in the better virtues of our
enemy, and that peace was possible with tyrants.
“That lie, seductive though it was, has been exposed as a
cruel machination of statecraft created by the newly
appointed Dictator of the Society remnant, Atalantia au
Grimmus. Under her spell, we compromised with the
agents of tyranny. We turned on our greatest general, the
sword who broke the chains of bondage, and demanded he
accept a peace he knew to be a lie.
“When he did not, we cried, Traitor! Tyrant! Warmonger!
In fear of him, we recalled the Home Guard elements of the

White Fleet from Mercury back to Luna. With the Echo of
Ares and her battle group undergoing repairs on Phobos,
this left Imperator Aquarii with barely half her ﬂeet to ﬁght
the duplicitous Dictator. Now, her ﬂeet, the ﬂeet which
freed all of our homes ﬂoats in ruins. Two hundred of your
ships of war destroyed. Thousands of your sailors killed.
Millions of your brothers and sisters marooned.
Quadrillions of your wealth squandered. Not by virtue of
enemy arms, but by the squabbling of your Senate.”
I gesture to the forty-ﬁve Blue captains of the Ares’s
battle group and twenty-eight wrathful centurions of my
husband’s Seventh Legion standing behind me. While their
brothers die in the Ladon, the legion agonizes on Luna,
trapped after being summoned to walk in the Triumph
honoring Mercury’s liberation, of all things. A Triumph the
Senate commissioned. They are not pleased with the irony.
And I am not pleased Sevro would rather play avenging
father than stand with them. I wave my hand at the noble
soldiers.
“The Echo of Ares, her battle group, and the Seventh sail
for Mercury in four days’ time. The Senate says they will
sail alone. Against the Ash Armada, they will most certainly
perish. But they sail nonetheless, because they do not
abandon their own.
“Were it within my power, I would send the entire might
of our planetary defense ﬂeets to aid them in this venture.
But it is not within my power. That power lies with your
Senate. From the inception of this crisis, I have urged them
to use it. To bolster this rescue ﬂeet with ships from Earth
and Luna’s Home Guard or Mars’s Ecliptic Guard. Again
and again my eﬀorts have been rebuﬀed by the
demagogues of the Vox Populi. They refuse to act. And they
are not without support from you.
“I have heard it said in these last months, in the halls of
the Senate, on the streets of Hyperion, on the news

channels across our Republic, that we should abandon
these sons and daughters of liberty, these Free Legions. I
have heard them called, in public, without shame, ‘the Lost
Legions.’ Written oﬀ by you, despite the courage they have
summoned, the endurance they have shown, the horrors
they have suﬀered for you. Written oﬀ because we fear that
to part with our ships will invite invasion. Because we fear
to once again see Society iron over our skies. Because we
fear to risk the comforts and freedoms the men and women
of the Free Legions purchased for us with their blood…
“I will tell you what I fear. I fear time has diluted our
dream! I fear that in our comfort, we believe liberty to be
self-fulﬁlling!” I lean forward. “I fear that the meekness of
our resolve, the bickering and backbiting on which we have
so decadently glutted ourselves, will rob us of the unity of
will that moved the world forward to a fairer place, where
respect for justice and freedom has found a foothold for the
ﬁrst time in a millennium.
“We have let our union erode to tribalism. We hoard our
wealth. We abandon our votes for violence. We summon
tantrums instead of gritting our teeth in common purpose.”
I pause and make sure this stands apart, knowing that the
Syndicate Queen, wherever she is, will understand my
declaration of war. “We aid our enemy. Even now terrorist
organizations like the Luna-based Syndicate and its
franchises eat at our foundation like termites by funneling
helium-3 into the bellies of Society war machines and the
ships of Ascomanni raiders.”
Reporters murmur from the shadows beneath their
camera drones.
“I fear that in this disunity we will sink back into the
hideous epoch from which we escaped, and that the new
dark age will be crueler, more sinister, and more protracted
by the malice which we have awoken in our enemies.

“I believe this truth manifest: the Free Legions are not
lost.” My ﬁst hammers my lectern. “While we abandoned
them, they did not abandon us. They did not cave to
despair. In the cold of our neglect, in the shadow of atomic
clouds, they triumphed. Yet. Despite this victory, their time
is short. They have blunted Atalantia’s blade, but not her
will. Pushed back to the city of Heliopolis and its attendant
lands, millions of free men and women dig in to face the
onslaught of enemy armor. Their supplies run low. They are
surrounded. They are outnumbered. They have risked all to
protect you. Now it is your turn to risk something for them.
“I call upon you, the People of the Republic, to stand
united. To beseech your senators to reject fear. To reject
this torpor of self-interest. To not quiver in primal
trepidation at the thought of invasion, to not let your
senators hoard your wealth for themselves and hide behind
your ships of war, but to summon the more wrathful angels
of their spirits and send forth the might of the Republic to
scourge the engines of tyranny and oppression from the
Mercurian sky and rescue our Free Legions.”
I let the silence stretch to the hearts of the free, and into
my own. There was a moment before this doom. One I
cradle close, like the last candle on a dark day. A moment
of peace, where Darrow was not yet my husband, and we
sat in the sands of Earth watching Sevro and Victra swim
out to see the eagle nests amongst the sea stacks. Darrow
cradled Pax in his arms. They had only just met. But he
loved him because he was my boy, and bit by bit he realized
he was his boy, our boy that we made together.
He put his ear to Pax’s chest to listen to his heartbeat.
He told me then what he felt when he declared this war
within the Hives of Phobos. How he was not close enough
to hear the fading beat of his father’s heart, or Eo’s. But
how, in that moment, he could feel the hearts of his people

beating across the darkness. How in the heartbeat of our
son, he could hear them all again.
I have never equaled my husband’s spirit. For so many
years, I led for guilt, for duty, seldom for love, all while
fearing the coldness in my ancient blood would forever rob
me of the passion to hear the pulse of the people.
But I hear it now. I hear it as free hearts beat behind me.
As they beat in their bunks on the torchShips that patrol
the edges of free space. As they beat in the shadowed veins
of asteroid mines, in the smoky dens of hinterland trade
depots, in ore caravans, deepspace waystations, in the
rattling assembly lines of Phobos that make the ships which
protect our liberty. I hear it in the megalopolises of Mars,
the broken streets of fallen Olympia, the tempestuous wine
bazaars of Thessalonica, the quiet shadow of the Agean
Citadel from which my father once gripped the throat of a
planet and now there towers a monument to the rebel girl
he hanged and made immortal. I hear them in the jungle
sprawl of Echo City. In the glittering spires of Old Tokyo. In
the martial training grounds of New Sparta.
Yet I sense them fading in the assimilation camps, the
overﬂowing prisons, the broken cities, the tenement houses
ﬁlled with laborers who have lost their purpose to progress,
in the chanting Vox hordes who clog the streets of Luna,
and in the halls of power where senators whisper how
much they charge.
Soon those fading hearts will join the ashes of New
Thebes in their silence. They will join the mining townships
made into necropolises by the Rat War, the lingering rubble
the Block War left strewn west of Hyperion, and the
irradiated stormland of the Helios. I fear that my subjects
will return to their private concerns after this speech. It is
always the same. The eyes wander away and vapid glitter
again rules the feed.

“Brothers and sisters.” My voice nearly falters as I feel
more than ever the absence of my husband’s hand on my
shoulder. My son will not be waiting on my shuttle to
critique my speech. “Brothers and sisters…there will dawn
a day when these hostile hours, these days of hatred and
violence, seem the faintest of memories, but dark and steep
and long is the road up out of hell. So do not tire, do not
despair, do not abandon your brethren, and do not forget
that through this darkness we and we alone carry the light
of freedom. We must defend it with every cell in our bodies.
If not now, when? If not us, who?” I make my hand a ﬁst
and raise it in salute. “Hail libertas.”
In the back of the room, beyond the jaded circus, an old
Red janitor forgets himself and bellows with all his tiny
might: “Hail Reaper.” More join him. “Hail Reaper!” More
and more until half the room shouts my husband’s
invocation. But the rest stare in stony silence.
At that moment, three hundred eighty-four thousand
kilometers from my heart, in orbit one thousand kilometers
above the wayward continent of South Paciﬁca, a new
battery of twin prototype railguns, named the Twins of
South Paciﬁca for Earth’s favorite son and daughter, set
their telescopic sights on a path of empty space ten days
ahead of Mercury’s orbital path and ﬁre at full power.
Projectiles skinned with stealth polymer race into the void
at 320,000 kilometers per hour, ferrying not death, but
supplies, radiation medicine, machines of war, and, if my
husband is alive, a message of hope.
You have not been abandoned. I will come for you.
Until then, endure, my love. Endure.

***Virginiaa noise, a blaze of light, a soup, a
swagger, a mother, a vampire, an addiction, a beggar, a
lament, a suburb of Hyperion, and a memory of the future
we thought we wanted. A dozen ﬂeets waver through the
gutter puddles of her rain-soaked streets, only to be
shattered by the calf-high boots worn by the children of
four planets and thirty moons. They swarm to her to climb
her jigsaw bedlam of human and metal ladders. They are
geniuses, architects, idiots, swindlers, warlords, the lost,
the found, the indiﬀerent. And indiﬀerently she waits,
throbs, beats, swarms, suﬀocates, promises, and robs.
They call her the City of Light, but no one calls her home.
“What does Luna mean to you, Centurion?” I ask from
inside my private oﬀice aboard Pride One as we descend.
Holiday ti Nakamura was raised along the sunny shores of
South Paciﬁca, where there was not a building taller than a
grain silo for a hundred klicks. I have named her Dux of my
Lionguard—the elite bodyguard unit drawn from my house
UNA IS A DREAM,

legions. Of the one thousand Martians, she is the lone
Terran. That not a single man questions her appointment is
proof enough of her reputation. They call her Six, meaning
she’s always got your back.
“Quicksand,” she replies in regards to the moon.
The reply mirrors the cold-rolled spirit of the woman. Of
all my husband’s instruments, it is Nakamura I’ve envied
the most. Reputation, but little ego. Flexible, but
unbreakable. Brutal, but not cruel. Over these last weeks,
she has led the investigation into my son’s abduction with
grace. When their shuttle went down during Ephraim ti
Horn’s failed rescue attempt, it was as if the moon had
swallowed Pax and Electra. I fought every instinct to tear
apart the city to ﬁnd them, knowing a stampede of Republic
Intelligence would disturb the breadcrumbs. Holiday was
the scalpel I needed.
“And you, ma’am?” she asks, folding her datapad back
into its arm sheath.
What does Luna mean to me? How to answer that. A
thousand things.
“Renewal.” I catch her smirk in the window. Like Daxo,
she doesn’t suﬀer hollow sentiments. “Maybe one day
that’ll be true. My mother loved Luna, in fact. Before she
decided throwing herself oﬀ a cliﬀ and abandoning us was
preferable to a single day more of matrimony with my
father, she told me Luna was a place of magic. For it was
the one place even Nero au Augustus had to bow. Of
course, she meant he had to bow to Octavia. Reductive
thinking, really.”
Holiday waits for me to explain. I treasure her more than
she knows. Especially over these last days. The unspoken
peril of power is the receipt of unending, exhaustive
peacocking. Unlike most, Holiday is not waiting for her
turn to ﬂash her feathers. She listens because she’s heard

enough noise to know that truth, if it ever appears, creeps
in on quiet little feet.
I step closer to the window.
“There’s something here,” I say. “Something…else that
gnawed at Octavia. You know that feeling, Centurion.” I
look back at her. The diamond teeth of skyscrapers reﬂect
in her eyes as we pass Quicksilver’s Zenith Spire. “This
moon hungers.”
She makes a small sound of agreement as we pierce the
cloud layer.
Beneath it, Hyperion seethes in existential mania. For
fear of Gold ships over her skies, protesters ﬁll the streets.
Violence has broken out between Optimate and Vox street
factions. Watchmen sirens bathe the sky in green and
silver. Strikes have shut down the public trams and now
only the aerial arteries ﬂow.
“Have you ever heard of Silenius’s Stiletto?” I ask.
“After the Conquest of Earth, the powerful houses
engaged in a land grab,” Holiday replies. “Silenius was
faced with a dilemma. To his left, anarchy. To his right,
tyranny. Instead, he found the narrow path between. Barely
wide enough for the edge of a stiletto.”
“Well, well. Look who found time to read Meditations.”
“If Virginia au Augustus gives someone something to
read and they do not read it, they don’t deserve the faculty,
ma’am.”
I raise an eyebrow at her. “You talk to your husband with
that Copper tongue?”
She grins. “Then they’re a fuckin’ idiot, ma’am.”
I smile. Raw compliments are the best kind. “Whatever
you think of his politics, Silenius was wise. He knew
patience is the heart of cunning. Theodora has discovered
Senator Basilus has been taking bribes from Sun
Industries. I am allowing him to retire to his home in Echo

City next month. I will need a replacement for him before
the year is out.”
She blinks when she understands my intent. “I don’t
know if a toga would ﬁt me, ma’am.”
“How many senators were Praetorian dragoons who can
also quote Silenius’s Meditations? Not one, I’d say. Aside
from Rhone ti Flavinius, you’re the most famous Gray alive.
And Earth loves you.” I set a hand on the shorter woman’s
shoulders. She’s really built like a pit bull, isn’t she? No
neck. “We need symbols, Nakamura. The old ones are
fraying with use. Tell me you’ll think on it.”
She nods dutifully but, like all true soldiers, doubts she’ll
survive long enough to have to make the decision. As much
as I value her at my six, I wish she were with my husband
on Mercury. Sevro too for that matter. My husband needs a
conscience on his shoulder. Thraxa and Orion aren’t exactly
a pacifying inﬂuence. As for Harnassus, well, dogs and
cats.
My datapad ﬂickers with an incoming call. Nakamura
heads to the door to give me privacy. “Wait.” I gesture to
one of the ranadium chairs before my desk. “I’ll want your
opinion afterward.”
As she sits, I open the call on the desk’s projector.
Dancer appears from the waist up. He’s in a shuttle. A dark
red jacket with a high collar substitutes for his loathed
toga. The aging Red doesn’t look like he’s slept in weeks.
Pressured by me for the vote, and with his radical left
solidifying around ArchImperator Zan, the Blue commander
of Luna’s defense ﬂeet, how could he? As my father said:
“Never trust the man who sleeps under siege. He’s either
lazy or disloyal.”
“If it isn’t the loyal opposition,” I say with a smile.
“My Sovereign.” He says the word as if it carried no
more weight than “coﬀee” or “peanut.” “Must say, for a kilo

of gilded Palatine snakeshit, that was some damn ﬁne
oratory. Churchill?”
“Humans haven’t changed, why should the speeches?”
Despite the liver spots and heavy lines on his face, he is
still as handsome a Red as I’ve ever seen. He grimaces. “I
must say, it is odd. I’ve been called a traitor before. By
Daxo, Quicksilver, Orion. Never suspected it’d feel so raw
coming from you.”
“I didn’t quite—”
“Virginia.”
“I suppose I did.” I brush invisible lint from my jacket
cuﬀ and sigh. “A rhetorical ploy only, I assure you.” He’s no
traitor. He’s just afraid, but if I accuse a Red man of that,
he’ll bite down and hold on like a tick. “It doesn’t have to
be this way, you know. You and I ﬂourish when we
cooperate.”
“We have had our moments.”
“But.”
“Here she goes…”
“But our system isn’t working as it should. The division of
military command is a ﬂaw we saw coming, yet kicked
down the lane because we thought we were all going the
same direction. Irresponsible of us, but understandable.
Facts: our enemy can respond with greater urgency and
secrecy than we can, and not all senators prize prosecution
of the war over the continued habitation of their togas. I
need to be able to run this war eﬀiciently.”
He knows I admire respectful dialogue, and speaks in a
neutral, even tone. “Virginia, the Senate was intended to be
inconvenient. A check on despotism. You know as well as I:
whatever the executive gets, it keeps. Forever. You are
measured. You are thoughtful. If we give you temporary
control over the defense ﬂeets, it may work this time. May.
But your hamartia is that you think wisdom is contagious. It

fuckin’ ain’t. You won’t always be Sovereign. What if it’s
Daxo next?”
“Or Zan?” I suggest.
“Or Zan.” He rubs his lantern jaw. “Only person besides
you or me that wouldn’t wreck the world is Publius. Selfrighteous little twat that he is.” Reds do hate their Coppers.
“Publius? Ha. He’d just give speeches all day on civic
duty,” I say.
“And ladle soup for the poor.”
“Long as there are cameras.”
“Naturally.” We’re united in a smirk, then return to our
corners as he continues. “Raw talk. You know I love the
Free Legions. They’re the best of Mars. You know I love
Darrow like a son. But he’s gone, Virginia. I buried him the
moment I heard he landed in Tyche. Abandon this crusade,
for the good of us all.”
I watched the speech he gave denouncing my ﬁrst
attempts to send a ﬂeet. He looked like he was picking the
varnish for his own son’s casket. The guilt must be
devouring him.
“If he’s alive, he’s encircled,” he continues. “Atalantia
will dangle him like bait. This is just another trap. We have
more ships, but only if we leave a planet vulnerable. They
will lure us out, take us away from our orbit guns, and kill
us, or just slip past and kill the planets. We’re vulnerable in
attack, strong in defense. Who do we have left that can
match Atalantia and her Gold Praetors in space? Zan?” He
shakes his head. “Atalantia’ll eat her alive.”
“Kavax, Niobe, and the Arcos matriarchs will lead the
ﬂeet.”
“Golds against Golds.” He hates that he wonders how it
always comes to that, because he knows the answer. “Not
one of ours under sixty. Atalantia is in her prime. Ajax is a

rising terror. And Atlas…Fact is, there’s ﬁve hundred of
them that’d make even Nakamura run in a meat straw.”
The old soldier likes his colloquialisms. This one is for a
close-quarters battle where two sides blow men into either
end of a ship corridor till one runs out of breath, or men. It
is an infantry term, so it is rather gross.
“More like ﬁve thousand,” Nakamura murmurs. Not one
for bravado, she makes a sniping motion, her only salvation
against the apex predators of my breed. I’ve seen her take
down a Peerless in close quarters. I also know the price she
paid. Her legs are bionic from the femur down. At least
they match her robot eye.
“And then there’s Aja’s brood,” Dancer mutters. “What
happens if Ajax boards the Reynard? Kavax can barely walk
around the garden.”
He knows what I know. Darrow was the force of nature
we rode to victory after victory. Yet whenever the Gold
Legates or Praetors caught our other leaders in the ﬁeld,
they consistently made mincemeat of them. Wanting
lowColors to be equal to Peerless in warfare is not the same
as them being equal.
Without Darrow, he has no conﬁdence in our arms. But
the risk is necessary.
“Dancer, my husband and the Free Legions are our two
greatest symbols. If the Republic abandons the Free
Legions, Mars will give up on Luna. Then Luna falls to
Atalantia. Atalantia takes Earth. Mars stands alone. And,
eventually, Mars falls. Give us an alternative. A
compromise. I’ll send my own ships, Kavax’s, Arcos’s, but I
need a hundred ships-of-the-line from the defense ﬂeets to
stand a chance against Atalantia. That’s less than a third of
Luna’s ﬂeet.”
“And if you lose?”
“We won’t.”

He sits in silence, rubbing his outsized hands together.
The movement slows as his resolve forms. I hear the door
shutting before he looks up. I missed my opportunity, or
perhaps it never really existed. “I cannot risk those atomics
coming here,” he says. “I may hate this human swamp, but
it’s ﬁlled to capacity.”
“Then I wish you good health and ill fortune.”
“Wait, Virginia.” My hand hovers over the datapad as he
leans forward, voice barely above a whisper. “You know this
will escalate. If I somehow fall oﬀ a balcony or eat an
unruly ﬁshbone—”
He hits the nerve.
“Pity. I never confuse you and Harmony. Yet after all this
time, you still think I am my father. Or is it my brother?”
“It’s not you. It’s your people.”
“Daxo, you mean.”
“And Theodora, the Seventh, the Arcoses.”
“I have them under control.”
If he knew Sevro was here and out of control, he’d be
shitting himself.
“That’s either a big fat lie or you’re drinking your own
swill. You and I both know Darrow and the Reaper are two
diﬀerent things entirely. And the Reaper didn’t gnaw
through the Society because he was a better military
strategist than the Ash Lord. His gift is making men go
mad. You’ve seen it.”
I have. Fighter pilots going “Polyphemus” and driving
straight into the bridges of enemy torchShips so much the
Golds put them in the center of the ships. Unarmored
lowColors using their tattered bodies to weigh down
armored Golds so their fellows can ﬁnish them, like hounds
after a cougar, baying my husband’s name.
“I didn’t stop carrying a riﬂe because I was old or it was
heavy,” he says. “I did it to counter the Reaper’s weight as I

never could in the legions. Some literally think he is a god.
If they think he wants it…they’ll murder cities. They’ll
murder me.”
There is a frail quality in him that goes behind weariness
of the ﬂesh. One he has never permitted me to see before.
But the frailness is not weakness. It is a cornered spirit too
tired for anything except a killing blow. “If I am
assassinated…the Vox will retaliate.”
“I will control my people,” I say. “I wish I believed you
could control yours. I will see you in three days, Senator.
Try to avoid ﬁshbones.”
I punch oﬀ the datapad. It ﬁzzles with broken circuits. I
punch it again. What good is being smarter than everyone
if no one listens? Is this how my father felt? My brother? Is
evil born of pure frustration?
Holiday watches the blood drip from a gash on my
knuckle. It’s already coagulating. Even Mickey couldn’t
match that genetic blessing. “Centurion, if I told you to kill
Dancer O’Faran, would you do it?”
“No, ma’am.”
“Why not?”
“If Darrow and Orion are dead, you two are the
Republic.”
We don’t know if they are or not. Communication to the
planet is down. But I reject the concept of doubt. Darrow
and Pax do not die. It is a paradigm of my life that will be
true until proven beyond reasonable doubt.
I lick clean the congealing blood. “Good answer.” Even
Kavax would never have refused my father like that. If
Holiday only knew how much her presence restrains my
darker urges, she might think it wise to put a few rounds
through my skull just to be safe. “Make sure the word goes
through the ranks again. If anyone so much as touches a
hair on Dancer’s head, the last face they’ll ever see will be

mine as I entomb them in the bowels of Deepgrave, with
only lonely Boneriders for company.”
“Yes, ma’am. But it’s not them you have to worry about.”
She lowers her voice. “The Seventh is climbing the walls.
They think the Senate is ﬁlled with traitors. If Sevro goes to
them…”
“He has thirty thousand elite shock troops within twenty
minutes of the Citadel. I’m aware, Nakamura. I am very
much aware.” I stretch my neck as my ship approaches the
Moonhall landing pad. “Silenius walked his stiletto. I’ve no
doubt we’ll walk ours.”
“What makes you so conﬁdent?”
“Well, for starters, we have smaller feet.”

***VirginiaDictaeon Antrom, the personal skyhook
of my closest
conﬁdant, Daxo au Telemanus, and for ten years the
informal headquarters of the Vox’s nemesis, the Optimate
Party, ﬂoats over the Citadel. Daxo designed it himself to
look like a brain. Viewed from above, it resembles little
more than a pair of very engorged testicles. And everyone,
excluding perhaps four people, is afraid to say so. For
years, I had him park it over the Sea of Serenity to
maintain the impartiality of my oﬀice. And for aesthetics.
There’s little point to either anymore.
Under its conjoined domes, an army has assembled.
Instead of armor, these soldiers wear high-collared suits,
lion pins instead of phalera of valor, and carry datapads
instead of riﬂes. The politicos of the Optimate Party are
ready for war. As is Daxo’s ﬂoating oﬀice.
Inﬂatable beds ﬁll hallways and oﬀices in anticipation of
the seventy-two-hour blitz before the vote. Coﬀee carts
trundle. Medici prepare their stim stations. Commissaries

check their food stores. Dozens of senators join us in
hologram conference from their homes in Hyperion and
oﬀices in the Citadel.
The politicos assemble along the dome’s tiered rows of
data stations that encircle the gravity shaft down to Daxo’s
oﬀice.
The politicos applaud as I enter, hailing my speech and
chanting for Mars in honor of their fellow Martians, which
comprise most of the Free Legions.
They know the vote will be momentous. Not just because
of its material consequences, but because it represents a
tectonic shift in our politics. Years ago, I predicted the
natural evolution away from Color tribalism to planetary
nationalism. Now it is here and people are shocked, as
though interest groups carve themselves out of the ether.
We stand to lose moderate Lunese, who fear invasion.
Dancer stands to lose most Martians, possibly all Reds—
who often vote against me, but have rediscovered their
zealotry for my husband after his victory. As for Earth—it’ll
be up for grabs. But after all the shifting and shaking, the
vote will come down to Copper and Obsidian—who have
declared solidarity and plan to vote as blocs. Win one, it’s a
knife ﬁght. Win both, it’s victory. Lose any of our foundation
—Silver, Gray, White—and it’s bedlam. The problem is, I
know Seﬁ is not in her estate on Earth or on Luna. She
smuggled herself to Mars weeks ago to link up with
elements already there in Olympia. Bit by bit, she smuggles
more Obsidian, and prepares her plans. Whole legions have
gone missing. She thinks I don’t notice. But how will her
senators vote, considering those plans? I haven’t the
faintest clue.
I ask Flagilus, one of Daxo’s premier Pink apprentices,
where his master is hiding.
“In a meeting with Senator Caraval.”

“A meeting? In his oﬀice?”
Flagilus’s cadre of politicos chuckle to one another.
“Much to our dismay as well. It seems Senator Caraval has
more testicular fortitude than his side part would suggest.
Senator Telemanus asked for you to do the honors and to
join him after.”
I feel a minor pang of disappointment. Only Daxo loves
this weird game as much as I do. I was not as close with
him as a child. In fact, I found his intelligence entirely too
much like that of a shark—restless and indefatigably
predatory. But it was not Pax or Kavax or their sisters who
pumped the water from my lungs when I struck my head on
a coral reef as a girl.
He saved my life then, a deed that would soon become a
habit. How many days did we sit together composing
ridiculous game theories and mock debates after I broke
my leg in a fall from my father’s prized sunblood?
Without Daxo, this is a lonely endeavor. “They can wait,”
Holiday says. She’s been watching me.
“That obvious?” I ask.
“I never drink tequila without Trigg,” she says. “You and
the brain have been planning this for weeks. It can wait ﬁve
minutes.”
It’s just the excuse I was looking for. I ﬂash her a smile.
“Careful of the politicos. They’re carnivorous.”
“Atlas already tried that. I’m inedible.”
“That I do not doubt.”
I jump down the shaft and free-fall two hundred meters
until the gravity well slows my descent. My feet touch down
in the center of an aquarium. Walls of water stand a
hundred meters high, held back from the central axis of the
oﬀice by a stasis ﬁeld. Smaller bubbles of water, restricted
by secondary ﬁelds, wander through the oﬀice ferrying
carnivorous passengers to and fro.

It is a game, you see. The trick for Daxo is never to let
one of his seventeen infant gigavok—cartilaginous pale
deepsea predators—exist within a sphere or wall of water
with another. The species has stunted pituitary glands that
limit their size to one meter unless their glands are
stimulated via cannibalism. In six years there have been no
fatalities within Daxo’s oﬀice, except the unfortunate case
of the Peerless Venusian assassin who thought Daxo was
sleeping. Seven gigavok shared her for lunch. It was the
most horrible thing I have ever seen in my life. Victra
clouted Sevro bloody when she caught him showing it to
their daughter Electra late at night up in Lake Silene.
My sister-in-law, for lack of a more accurate word, has a
theory that is not altogether mad. “If Dictaeon Antron is
actually supposed to be a brain, pray tell what is the
purpose of giant albino swimmers? They’re sperm, Virginia.
Giant predatory cannibal sperm, and not even ﬁve people
have the nerve to say so. Daxo is playing a joke on the
world, just to measure who isn’t afraid of him. I love that
freak.”
And I miss that woman, despite her irascible idiocy. She
might be the only human alive who can make me lose my
temper with a single sigh about how coﬀee just tasted
better when it was picked by slaves.
I follow the sound of Daxo’s voice through an amorphous
corridor of water. A gigavok stalks me from a water bubble
above. I try to ignore the metaphor.
I ﬁnd Daxo reclining on a fainting couch set on a Turkish
rug with the insouciant entitlement of a vacationing
heiress, albeit a colossal, bald heiress who is equally at
ease coaxing a political concession from a rival as he is
smashing Venusian skulls with his personal collection of
exotic weaponry.
Sitting across from Daxo in a simple, oﬀ-the-rack suit,
legs folded, hair parted, unremarkable face passive, is

Publius cu Caraval, The Incorruptible, Tribune of the
Copper bloc, the media’s Voice of Reason, and the most
important vote in the Republic.
What a catch. How in Jove’s name did Daxo manage to
part him from his soup kitchen?
“Come, come, Publius,” Daxo purrs, making a small hand
gesture to acknowledge my presence. “You know how the
game works. Concessions are as detestable, natural, and
necessary in politics as ﬂatulence in humans.”
“Daxo, please. We both know when it comes to battles of
rhetoric, you have me unarmed. I’ve told you once, I’ll tell
you again, I cannot in good conscience vote to expand the
Sovereign’s powers when she continues to let Quicksilver
run roughshod over this government and its people.” His
voice has a surprisingly alluring quality. He’s already a ﬁne
orator. If he weren’t so Pecksniﬀian, and added a little
bombast to make up for his lack of presence, he would be
nearly as good as me.
Daxo makes a sound of mild disgust. “Is the fate of the
Free Legions worth such moral rectitude?”
“Possibly, yes. He gouges us with prices, threatens the
fabric of society with his attacks on unions and the common
man. Just last week, his automatons put a million laborers
out of work in Endymion. It wasn’t enough he stole the
Reds’ mines through legal skullduggery, he’s taking Luna
too!”
“It is unreasonable to expect her to give the Silvers
nothing, Publius.”
“It is immoral to allow private citizens to hold this
government hostage,” Publius replies. “I am sorry, Daxo,
but it is a nonstarter. The military side of your strategy is
convincing, not that I could tell a decurion from a
centurion. But I cannot vote for the bill if you cede to his
demands. It is an issue of principle.”

I clear my throat and step out from behind the water
wall. Publius jumps to his feet, startled, and sweeps into a
bow perfectly attuned to the sizable respect he has for my
oﬀice.
“Senator Caraval,” I say, kissing him on the cheek. “I
admit I’m surprised to see you here, of all places.”
“Yes, well, desperate times call for sacriﬁces from us all,”
he replies. He casts a look around, certainly irked by the
gigavok and the ostentatiousness of the oﬀice. His own
oﬀices are kept in the same nondescript lower Hyperion
building where he served as a public defender for
lowColors before the Rising. His assigned oﬀices in the
Citadel are too grandiose for his tastes. Before the Rising, I
couldn’t imagine a world where he and Daxo would ever be
in the same room, much less speaking as relative equals.
Makes me smile a little inside, especially noting Daxo’s
annoyance.
“I was under the impression you viewed the legions as
lost,” I say, taking a seat on a Turkish cushion.
The Incorruptible nods and retakes his seat. “A
deplorable presumption on my part, I fear. The numbers,
you see. While my assessment was based on the data I had
at the time, I admit to a certain…dimming of faith.” He
hangs his head. “I am ashamed for that, but not the
assessment. I said the same to Daxo here: I judge a case
based on its evidence. You know I am loath to ﬂimﬂam, ﬂipﬂop, or whatever they call it these days, but the situation
has changed. What your husband did…staggering, my
Sovereign. Staggering.”
“And the moral ramiﬁcations?” I ask.
He waves his hand before his face. “Fascism is a scourge.
Sometimes we must sacriﬁce to destroy it.”
“So you no longer presume the legions lost.”

“No,” he says. “Your speech, Daxo’s dogged pursuit, the
Battle of the Ladon, they have woken the slumbering
patriot. If we can bring them back, we make a statement
that will ring through time.” He steeples his ﬁngers and
leans forward. “Yet I am in a bind. I am from this moon. I
am expected to vote with the Vox.”
“Even as they descend into ﬁts of nonsensical maudlin
hysteria stemming from Cassandra Syndrome?” Daxo asks.
Publius levels a look at him. “I disagree with them, but I
will not abide intellect-slander.” He turns back to me. “My
prior vocation taught me to be detailed in assessment and
concise in judgment. The Vox fear momentary pain for longterm gain. We must save the legions. But the Silvers know
how desperate this vote is. They will bleed you dry. I cannot
allow this Republic to become another plutocracy. I will
not.”
“So you blame them for ransoming their votes, yet you’ve
come to do the same to me. You’ve learned well.”
“I am not proud of it. Politics is an ignoble profession.
But as I said, sacriﬁces. My electorate does not have
trillionaires, much less a quadrillionaire benefactor. We are
public servants. Ten times the population of Silvers, we
have but the same ten senators they have. We must use
what leverage we can.”
I expected as much. He’s a patient man, honest to the
point of obnoxious, but worst of all, he knows when he has
a strong hand. He knows I have more tricks. He wants me
to use them on Silver. Somehow he’s found the only way to
keep clean hands in this world is to outsource the dirty
work.
Lucky for me, I have access to gloves, and a long eye.
“Hypothetically,” I begin as if the plan weren’t already in
motion for weeks now, “what if I told you I could get the
Silver vote, maybe not all, but enough, without one

concession? And when the Senate temporarily expands my
powers, I will annul many past concessions?”
He leans forward. “Then hypothetically, I am intrigued.
But I should hear no more, of course.”
“Of course.”
“I’ll take my leave, then.” He stands and shakes Daxo’s
hand, then mine. A servant appears to guide him to a
secondary door in the ﬂoor. Before he descends, he glances
about. “Senator Telemanus. I must admit, the architecture
certainly makes a statement. It is a remarkable man who
can bare his balls to the world.”
Daxo is stunned silent. Publius bows. The door closes.
And I burst into a ﬁt of laughter.
Daxo waits for me to recover, entirely ignoring Publius’s
remark. He taps his chin in thought with a foreﬁnger the
size of a steak knife as I sit down. “You want to know how I
lured him here?”
“Sure, let’s talk about that.”
“I told him Darrow sent a communiqué from Mercury
telling us to beseech Publius cu Caraval. ‘He is the
conscience of the Republic, and our last hope.’ ”
“You are a cretin.”
“Yes, aren’t I? There is only one thing in which Publius is
not forthcoming—his irascible vanity.”
“Unique trait.”
“Sarcastic ripostes are seldom clever enough to prove
that they are little more than the desperate cries for
validation of a petty and insecure mind.”
“Oh, shut up, Father.”
“He did teach us half of what we know.”
“The cold, evil half.”
“Which has kept us alive amongst predators, my dear.
Returning to my thrust—when has a Copper ever been a

savior?” He chuckles to himself. “Now all you have to do is
wrest the Silvers away from Quick, and victory shall be
ours.”
“Stop talking in that tone. We already seem evil enough
in this aquatic lair of yours. All that’s missing is you
twirling a mustachio.”
He strokes the gold angels embedded on his bald head
instead. “Speaking of facial hair…”
“Theodora has Sevro under control.”
“Does she?”
I sigh. “Daxo…”
“It is hardly pedantic to advise my Sovereign to utilize
her best assets. Theodora has proven herself capable, but
she is not me nor is she you. Nor is she any of the two
hundred Peerless on Luna equipped for the task.”
He sighs and pets a passing gigavok through a water
sphere, almost losing a ﬁnger for it. He smiles, not
oﬀended. He likes it when things obey their natures.
“I confess. I have always viewed Sevro as a marginal
character in our great endeavor. He is ill-tempered, rash,
and braggadocious in nature. I don’t know if he’s ever read
a book. Let me loose, and I will subdue the illiterate
halfman in short order.”
I pretend to consider it.
If one listed all the qualities a tyrant might possess, one
might start by describing Daxo au Telemanus. He is cruel,
thorough, calculating, cold, arrogant, and, though he does
not lack empathy, he is fairly unconvinced of its logical
merits. Just as he is entirely unconvinced of demokracy. But
he is obsessively competitive. And he chose his team long
ago.
More than any man I’ve ever met, Daxo was entirely
content being a lonely child. Thank Jove Kavax told me to

memorize Paradise Lost before I met his ﬁrstborn. We
might have lost the war if he found me wanting.
“A thought’s just occurred to me,” I say. “Did you model
yourself after Milton’s depiction of Lucifer?”
“Finally.” A slow, immense smile spreads across his lips;
he is as pleased as a lizard on a hot rock. “To be weak is
miserable, doing or suﬀering.”
“Jove on high,” I say. “It took me twenty-seven years to
get that.”
“You are my only friend to guess.”
“Daxo, you only keep one friend.”
“At a time. You lasted longer than the rest. There are
more private secrets to uncover. Hiding in plain sight.”
“The gigavok are metaphors for your virility, and your
fear that if you had children, they would eat each other.”
“Fuck.”
He glares at me.
I lean back. “You see, communication is our salvation.
So…no, you don’t get to play with Sevro. Exponential
oddity is a perilous game.”
“Very well.” He sighs his colossal body from his couch
and oﬀers me a hand. The waters part as he escorts me to
the gravity well. We look up at the light of the politico
chamber. “Are you certain we can’t dissolve the Senate?”
he asks. “It would just be so much simpler to feed them to
my metaphors.”
“No.”
“Worth a try.”
We put our heads together and recite our mantra.

Matter, how tiny my share
Time, how brief my allotment
Fate, how small my roll to play

Self, all that can be mastered
Then, hand in hand, we ascend.
—
Hundreds of political adjuncts quiet as we arrive.
“Good morning!” I say to the Optimate army as Daxo
looms over my shoulder like an evil Proctor. Silence falls.
Their faces turn toward us in excitement. Gods, so many
are as young as I was when I served Octavia. “I hope you’re
all rested. I’ll be brief. Most of you have done this before on
the Conscription Accords and that sham of a peace treaty.
We’ve learned our lesson from those losses: press to the
Forum. And we didn’t have momentum then. We’ve got it
now, dammit. Three days from today, we vote to save eight
million lives. Until then, cancel your families, cancel your
social calendars…” They laugh at that fantasy. Daxo has no
patience to teach anyone but obsessive-compulsive
Martians, and stone-cold political killers. “You have only
this…”
I toss up a hologram pyramid the size of an assault
shuttle, subdivided into empty blocks representing the
seventy-one-vote majority needed to give me the power
over the defense ﬂeets.
“Fill. This. Pyramid,” I say. “Twice we’ve tried to vote.
Twice, the Vox have turned the screws and denied us the
eight Tribunes to call a quorum. With his victory, Imperator
O’Lykos has given us the Tribunes. With ours, we give him
a chance.”
They rap their knuckles on their desks.
“For those of you fresh in from Mars, prepare yourselves.
Good demokracy on Luna is not like that of Agea. Here,
good demokracy is a knife ﬁght. No vote is set in stone. No
word eternal. What we gain, we must ﬁght to the bone to

keep. The Vox will use every tactic at their disposal. Daxo
has given you your assignments. He alone channels my
will.” They know that already. “From here to the vote,
Hyperion will descend into a ﬁt of political hysteria. But we
will endure because…”
“Hic sunt leones!” they shout, as is their custom. I feel
the inner heat building toward that exultant moment. I
extend my hand to Daxo, and take from his titanic hands
the giant hourglass Mickey grew from Venusian glass coral
and gifted me upon the legalization of inter-Color
reproduction. I hold it up, cherishing the vibrations before
the storm, the fear and nervousness bubbling from my
allies, and then slam it down.
“Fill. This. Pyramid!”
Senator holograms blink away. Aides enter their iso pods.
In my oﬀices in the Citadel of Light, in the halls of Senate
Crescent, all over Hyperion, thousands of soldiers in my
political army rotate the great pistons of our demokratic
engine.
Lobbyists
ﬂood
restaurants
and
oﬀices.
Trillionaires turn their screws. Organizers activate their
armies. Media surrogates prepare for cameras. Senators
become the courted, the hunted, the pressured, the wooed,
the fooled, the bamboozled, the corrupted, and the
purchased.
A thrill of excitement goes up my leg. I do love this.

***EphraimMajesty, you have suffered a catastrophic
collision.
Two life forms in critical danger.
A distress signal has been sent to your employer.
A distress signal has been sent to your employer.
Smoke in the nostrils. Pressure. Shivering. Try to move.
Can’t. Thumping blood in the deep of my thigh. Lights
stutter and crackle. Bent metal everywhere. Panic
creeping.
Pinned to the ﬂoor by collapsed hull. Right leg trapped.
Bullet hole in chest, no exit wound, resFlesh torn. Probably
fatal. Smoke. A boy gasping. Push myself up. Can’t. Why
not? Left radius and ulna snapped. Compound fracture.
Pokes out through skin. Looks like a barracks “beef” rib
through blood pudding.
Losing blood. Body cold. Hear voices. Threat? Reach for
weapon. Can’t ﬁnd it. Darkness creeping in.
OUR

Molten square opens hole in hull. Crash of metal. Volga?
No. Filthy creatures in tatters. Big boys. Glowing laser
eyes. Respirators, radiation gear. Scavengers. Swat my
hand away. Look under my eyelids. On my neck. Searching
for legion ink.
A distress signal has been sent to your employer.
A distress signal has been sent to your employer.
Fear. Bickering. A child’s body dragged out. Limp. Heavy
cutting laser. Going to help me. Cut the hull away. Free me.
Smell roasting meat. Mouth waters. Feel pressure. Look
down. My hip, but no leg. Where is my leg?
Volga. Help me.
I fall out of the horror back into the shell of my body.
Incomprehensible agony radiates from the interior of my
right thigh. The rest of me does not move.
“…rejecting the artiﬁcial tissue.”
The words slither through the thick wool of my brain. My
ring is gone. I look down at my body, or try to look. The
body is naked, pinned to a table like a vivisected frog. My
right leg is skinless synthetic meat from the hip down.
Green, webby ﬁbers spasm over translucent bone. Artiﬁcial
vessels worm in ﬂeshy strands. An emaciated human with
two hundred glass eyes aﬀixed to his head hunches near
my feet, spinning membrane. Someone screams. I think it’s
me.
“Massive coronary agitation.”
“…withdrawal complication.”
“Keep him alive,” a voice rumbles beyond the light. “Your
Queen wills it.”
“…sedative!”
I drift into the dark. It is warmer than I expected. There
is a boy there, on a raft, his hands behind his head, his skin
freckled from the sun. He ﬂoats oﬀ a shadowy shore
watching a big sky, not one collared by metal towers, but

dusted with stars and stretching the horizon. All I want is
to ﬂoat there with him. To smell the salt. To lie in that
cradle as the sea rocks us to sleep.
The moon pulses in the sky like an atomic dilation.
Drawing me up into its gravity. No no no no nonononono.

Chop ’em if they’re taller.
Stomp ’em if they’re smaller.
Mauler, brawler, legacy hauler…
Chanting in the tunnel to light.
A girl stands over me. Her hatchetface pulled into a
sneer. A scalpel glints in her hand. She holds it over my
throat. My memories, my life, my guilt, return and I push
my throat up into the metal. “Go on, slick. Gimme a nick.”
I laugh when she can’t. Never comes when you want it
to. The laughter won’t screw oﬀ. I scramble for the Z valve
inside. It ain’t there. The laughs turn to sobs. Till I’m
bawling like a softfoot waking ﬁrst night in his bunk to ﬁnd
his ass gettin’ torn up by a line of leatherneck triarii, fresh
in from killing Moonies.
I crank and crank on the Z valve.
Volga’ll be dead by now. Dead like the Scarhunters I
trained. Rest of my freelance team’s toe tags—Cyra, that
greedy idiot, Dano, poor pickpocket kid I made into a real
operator.
Dead by association.
Fuck me.
Where’s my fucking ring? Takes me a while to realize I’m
shouting it. I thrash against the restraints.
When the tears dry up enough for me to actually see, the
girl’s gone. The boy’s replaced her. So he’s alive. Well, that
feels…good. Got a nasty scar that’s gonna take some

healing from his right eye to his left jaw. I crack a smile
that splits my dry lips. “Hey, kid.”
“Tinman.” He dangles my engagement ring on the end of
a chain. “Been watching out for it.”
“Good lad. Give it here.”
He doesn’t. I spot the med-bank behind him. Look at all
that dope. Bottles and canisters and packages. Oh my.
“Where are we?”
“Mars.”
“Mars. Huh. So, kid. Need you to do old Tinman a favor.
Got some joints need oilin’. Got a condition, you know. Hard
life and all. Maybe zoladone? Might be some in the medbank back there.” He doesn’t move. “Just a little panel to
take the edge oﬀ. Liquid Z ain’t kill-juice. That zombie
shit’s all propaganda. Helps me with my demons.” He just
watches. “Come on, now. Come onnnn. I ain’t goin’
nowhere.”
“No.”
“Little rich shit. Saved your ass from a pillaging. Get
some Z. Don’t do me like this. I’ll eat your fucking heart.”
He steps back. “Come on. Hey.” I try a smile. “Heyyyy. I
didn’t mean. Was a joke.” My laugh comes out as a bark.
“Gods, you’re tight as Juno’s cunt. We made a good team
back there. But you gotta have my six. It’ll calm me down.
Had an operation, see? Please. Please, little man?”
“December sixteenth, 737 PCE.”
“Huh?”
“Four turmae necāre of Legio XIII Dracones, the best of
Flavinius’s Praetorians, were given orders by Aja au
Grimmus to assassinate reformers in the government in a
coordinated purge. One squad visited the Hysperia
Gardens, an illegal house of torture. Before insertion, they
were given their standard op-cocks. What they did not

know was that their customary stimulants had been
replaced with zoladone.
“Upon insertion, the killsquad received new orders that
even Aja knew her prized dragoons would ﬁnd…diﬀicult.
Freed from empathy by the zoladone, the dragoons
followed their orders and butchered seventy-ﬁve men,
women, and children guilty not of sedition, but of enduring
a life of sexual torture, and possessing compromising
information on loyal members of the ruling regime.
Including Atalantia au Grimmus. Afterwards, the dragoons
melted their victims with hydraxic acid. Even the children.”
I know this already. But the judgment of a child is a
horrible thing. It was his race that gave the order. Not
mine. “When Trigg ti Nakamura came oﬀ the zoladone
high, Holiday found him with a gun in his mouth. She
encouraged him to seek Ares to make up for the blood on
his hands. This according to her testimony on…”
I thrash forward at him. Things that’d make an ironclad
leatherneck with six rain badges turn her head and blink
pour out of my mouth. Slides oﬀ Pax like he’s on the Z
himself.
“Do you want to live like a zombie, when they made him
one?” He holds up the ring. “This ring belongs to Ephraim
ti Horn. When he asks for it back, I’ll give it to him.”
“—gives you the right?” I snarl. “Spoiled little—”
“You asked for Z before you asked for Volga,” he snaps.
“But you risked your life for her? You’re an addict, Tinman.
If you refuse to hold yourself to account, I’ll do it for you.
Jove knows, you don’t have anyone else.”
I lie awake screaming at him long after his footsteps
echo away. Soon I grow too tired. In the silence, memories
of Trigg hunt me down. Volga soon joins. In the cacophony,
I revert to all I know, and from my lips seeps the old
footfuck creed veterans screamed into my face as we
marched until it was drilled into our gray matter to replace

human vertebrae with titanium chain links. I whisper as I
fall asleep:

Chop ’em if they’re taller.
Stomp ’em if they’re smaller.
Mauler, brawler, legacy hauler,
smoke that crow, earn this holler.
Mauler, brawler, legacy hauler,
smoke that ant, pay oﬀ your collar.
Legio!
Aeterna!
Victrix!
One more time, you fuckin’ dogs!
Mauler, brawler, legacy hauler…

***EphraimI wake in a large four-poster. Light seeps through pale blue

curtains. How long have I been out? There’s an IV pumping
saline into me. My stomach rumbles as I pull it out. The
itch of the zoladone hunger has morphed from rabiesinfected ragebeast to small dog. It pisses in the corner and
squeaks out a bark. I ignore it, for now.
Kid visited, didn’t he? Has my ring. Has Trigg’s story.
That uppity brat. Gods, my head aches.
Right leg itches too, like it’s made of Venusian acid ants.
I toss oﬀ the blankets to reveal my legs. The artiﬁcial
muscles and sinew are now covered by a new growth of
pale skin that mismatches with my darker left leg. It’s fancy
tech—well muscled already. Puckered pink ﬂesh makes a
knot on my mid-torso where Gorgo’s rail slug passed
through the Duke of Hands and then into me. More pink
ﬂesh makes a ﬁnger-long ridgeline on my forearm where it
broke in the crash. I peek under my medical shorts.
Hello, oldboy. Glad you’re still around.

I wiggle the toes. Nerves are already calibrated. No
phantom pain, except a weird ache in my chest. Only get
work this good if you got the patronage of a rich house. But
I ain’t rich. I ain’t a crusader. So qui solvente? Who’s
paying? Where’s Volga? Where am I?
I push open the curtains. The suite is expansive and ﬁt
for a brooding but secretly sensitive knight from a holoCan
drama. Stone walls and ﬂoor. Expensive rugs. A hearth ﬁt
to dance in. A pair of fuzzy pink slippers sit by the bedside,
along with an arctic bear cloak. Someone thinks they’re
hilarious.
I slip both on and go to a wooden door punctured by
beams of sunlight. I’m blinded as I push it open. A wash of
cool air whips in. I wrap the coat tighter and step out onto
the terrace. Covered with spots of snow and topiaries, an
expanse of stone pushes to a low stone balustrade covered
thick with ﬂowering vines of green and silver.
Beyond that is a sight to see.
In the ﬁrst year of the Battle of Luna, my boys and I were
hunting some Gold gladiator impresario when the building
adjacent to ours was struck by a termite munition. When
the dust cleared, a Gold woman stood in the ruins of her
block empire. An arm missing from the elbow down, body
ﬂeeced of skin and all the blueprints underneath vivid as
traﬀic arteries. She swayed there, tilting her chin upward
at us. As if to say, “Witness my glory, peasants.”
She bled out instead of accepting our help.
The ruins of the Martian city of Olympia remind me of
that woman. Beautiful, regal, tough as a bare-ﬁsted
brawler, and pissed at the world for breaking her perfect
nose. I watched on Luna as the Minotaur made his stand
here against Seﬁ, holding out until the Reaper himself
came with the bloody Seventh to wreak a path of hell all
the way to the old seat of Bellona and send the Minotaur
scurrying like a kicked puppy.

What a sight. What a city. But while the war moved on,
Olympia didn’t.
I know her cloud towers fell to become squatter havens
west of the city. I can see their humps in the distance. The
rest of the old Bellona capital spills against the
northwestern lip of the Olympus Mons, and shimmies
toward Loch Esmeralda in an hourglass shape. Each warbattered kilometer reﬂecting the architecture of six
centuries of stately Bellona taste. And it is a ﬁne taste,
despite her broken skyline.
Only fascists should make cities. Demokrats never have a
salient thesis.
Her air traﬀic is sparse. Cooking ﬁres twirl from broken
buildings. Land traﬀic congests the northern gates.
Markets, overgrown grottoes, and old statue parks are
ﬁlled with bonﬁres and vagrant tents. People live here, but
not well.
I turn back toward my room and look up in awe. Eagle
Rest, citadel of the fallen Bellona, yawns up the tallest
mountain in the solar system. Libraries, government
buildings, dancing halls, and villas ascend the winter
mountain, held up by the wings of a dilapidated stone
eagle.
What the hell is going on? Why am I here?
The old senses are triggered, and I feel someone inside
my room. He’s not trying to hide. I just didn’t see him at
ﬁrst. I thought he was a sofa. One of the biggest men I’ve
ever seen lies on a beast skin in front of my ﬁre, roasting
walnuts in the coals with his bare hands. If you can call
those hands. The right one is huge and twisted like ginger
roots.
“Do you see your fate in the bones, Grarnir?” he asks in a
low, sibilant voice. He is bald, black-skinned like many
tribes of Mars’s North Pole, and incredibly fat. His eyes

focus on the coals. I glance to the ajar door. “A man may
run, but none has escaped his fate. Yet.”
“Who are you?” I ask.
His eyes scour the room. “I see his fate. A young eagle’s
nest was this. To plume his feathers, he went away, and met
the man around whom all fray. Now he lies in memory’s
cavern, head a blossom, heart judged by Saturn, on a cold
stone ﬂoor he found an early autumn.” He breaks a pipinghot walnut shell with his ﬁngers and slurps out the meat as
if sucking down an oyster. He is a living tattoo. Bright blue
runes swirl across his face, down his bare arms in
interlocking patterns. Seven ridiculous rings weigh down
the ﬁngers of his left hand with rubies and diamonds. There
is nothing left of his ears except keloid-rimmed holes in his
head. But what he lacks there, he compensates for with
arcane eyebrows thick enough for dung beetles to
disappear behind. Greased leather bags litter a scarlet
scale belt underneath a glossy cloak of raven feathers.
A shaman.
I would see the freaks on occasion in the Block Wars,
charging naked and high on God’s Bread toward the enemy,
with their engorged pricks out like a lance. They were
always surrounded by insane spirit warriors called skuggi.
As important to the warbands as the legionary eagle is for a
legion. Maybe more so. After all, Grays don’t believe in
magic.
If he’s here, skuggi will be outside that door. My prey
instinct shrieks inside me. In full kit, I’d take the window.
But I’m wearing slippers and bear fur, so I sit beside him as
he gestures. I’m smaller next to his mass than a nine-yearold Gray is to me.
“Your fate is not in these bones, Grarnir.” He gestures
toward the coals. There’s bones amongst them. Marrow
seeps out of ﬁssures as they heat and crack. Human bones.
Is that an eye socket? I swallow. They hiss.

“The men that came for you,” he says.
“Syndicate?”
He nods. “Price on your head so big, they lost theirs.” He
chuckles. “Freihild and the skuggi castrated them and,
once they spoke their truths, fed them to the sky queens to
make them strong. They had much fun.” Marrow bubbles
and trickles down what looks like a femur. The shaman
leans toward it, so close his eyebrows begin to curl. “I have
seen your fate in bones, Grarnir. Sometimes gods speak,
but you never know which one. Some play more tricks than
others.”
“Name’s Ephraim, oldboy.”
The eyes slide in his huge head to look sideways at me.
He chuckles again. “Shhhhh. He comes. He likes fear. Show
none. Perhaps his wrath will not come undone.”
“Who?”
He submerges his whole left hand in the coals, reaching
around as if rummaging through a backpack, and pulls out
a steaming walnut. This he rips open and shows me the
bronzed meat.
“Unshorn.”
I stand up in sudden panic, almost losing my balance on
the untested new leg. It’s got some thrust. “Valdir the
Unshorn?”
“Be wise, Grarnir. The Queen’s concubine has much
power. Little leash.”
I look for somewhere to hide. I hear boots. Heavy fucking
boots. The candles on the wall shiver. A shadow moves in
the hall outside the door. Torc rings make an unholy clatter,
each taken and melted from the sigils of a fallen Gold. They
don’t even bother with Grays.
“Silly man. Your destiny is not out the window,” the
shaman says without looking up. “But ﬁnd out for yourself
if you must.”

I glance down at him. No way he’s fast enough to stop
me.
“Nice to meet you, Mr. Shaman.” I run out the terrace,
my gait uneven on the new leg, my fur coat streaming
behind me, and hurl myself over the balustrade.
I grab two handfuls of vine and feel them sag under my
weight. My feet dangle over a kilometer drop down the
snowy cliﬀs. People always make such drama of heights.
Still haven’t met one worse than the Unshorn.
I climb down the sheer face of the parapet. High-altitude
wind nips at me. My hands are already going numb. The
vines are beginning to fray. A thick stone support column
upholds this section of the castle. It too is covered with
vines. I shimmy to the right and plant both feet on the
stone and shove oﬀ, trusting the acrobatics that helped me
become a legend of the underworld. Ephraim the Reptile.
Ephraim the Climber. Ephraim the…oh shit.
I ﬂy straight past the column.
My right leg is a freak. When I pushed oﬀ, it didn’t push.
It shot me like a bloody ballista. Three times as strong as
the old one ever was. Two-comma tech. Maybe even three.
I’m going to sail out into nothing—
I slam into solid stone. Another column! Ah that hurts.
Fingers scramble on bare stone for a grip as I bounce oﬀ. I
snag one as I fall. The vine begins to unravel. I plummet
down, breath stuck in my chest until I come to an abrupt
halt. Skin tears oﬀ the palm, but I hold on to the vine for
dear life. My slippers drift oﬀ into the expanse below.
O blight my balls.
I’ve fallen past safe harbor, at the extreme west of the
network of support columns. There’s nothing beneath but
jagged cliﬀs and twirling snow. My only salvation is to the
left, toward the western edge of the foundation of Eagle
Rest. It’s more than twenty meters away. Not far enough

down. I rock myself toward it. The vine sags. Keep at it.
Better than Unshorn. I swing in a parabolic arc, not close
enough yet. The vine begins to fray. Hold on, vine. I rock
back into nothingness, sagging a little. Rock back toward
the eagle wing, reach the zenith of the parabolic arc. And
let go the vine. Gravity tugs. I ﬂy feet-forward, body
perfectly horizontal, and then jerk my shoulders back, pull
my knees up, twirling into a ﬂip. Stick it, stick it, stick it…
Jarring force shoots from my heels into the knees as I
land barefoot on the stone. Haha! Then I slip on a patch of
ice and twist sideways just before a fall that would mean
certain death. I scramble to safety. Bloodied, freezing, and
cackling, I glare at the drop and spit.
Now, time to descend the cliﬀ face, get to the city, get
some shoes, a ship, and get out of Dodge. Do I know
anyone in Olympia? Hope not, Syndicate will have a price
on my head.
Then I hear something in the wind. I look up at the sky.
Nothing. I can’t even tell which parapet was mine, I’m so
far down. No one pursues. See my fate in your bones now,
shaman? Then the wind wails behind me. I turn around to
face the city, cupping my eyes against the sun. It winks oﬀ
the distant loch. Must have been…
Oh.
Jove.
On.
High.
Six monsters rise from beneath the edge of the stone
eagle wing. Pale blue feathers. Wingspans of twenty
meters. Huge birds of prey with bodies of feathered lions,
wrapped in rune-laden pulseArmor.
Griﬀins.
I run, because what else do you do?

A missile of fur, feather, and muscle hits the stone in
front of me. I sprawl backward. From amidst a cloud of
spitting snow the biggest damn thing I’ve ever seen uncoils
her white mass. I’ve seen the monster once before as it
devoured Euripedes au Votum atop the Dome of Endymion.
It is Godeater, the albino steed of the Obsidian Queen. But
no one rides in its saddle.
The griﬀin’s razor-scarred beak is the size of me. It opens
to scream into my face as a mountain of a man lands in its
shadow. My cilia wail. The man’s armored boots are big.
His tattooed arms like tree saplings, and ringed with gold
torcs. His helmet is three times the size of a human head.
Made from the skull of an African sand hydra, and plumed
with green meter-long poison feathers of a Paciﬁc
archipelago jungle dragon. His pulseArmor is battered and
white, shoulders set with the skulls of the Peerless
warlords he killed with the man-sized greataxe strapped to
his back.
The Reaper’s greatest armored cavalry commander
stomps toward me. The long valor tail of hair from which he
gets his name falls down his back to his tailbone, sewn with
trophies. I pick myself to my feet.
To his people: he is Big Brother.
To Golds: the Sky Bastard.
To everyone else: Valdir the Unshorn. Warlord and royal
concubine of Seﬁ the Quiet.
“Well, this isn’t where I parked my ship,” I say up at him.
Black eyes within the hollows of the hydra skull ﬂick
toward the mountain face and stone columns where I made
my passage. “Have you seen it? Shiny, long, two swollen
engines at the stern. Plenty of thrust.” No reply. “Listen, I
was working with the Sovereign. Your ally. Give her a call. I
ain’t saying I haven’t made mistakes, just don’t give me to
Barca. I ain’t earned that.”

Now he looks back at me. “Earned?” The voice ﬁlters
through the sonic chamber of the hydra, each decibel
contorted.
“Well, I mean, I did go face down the whole Syndicate.
Ask the kids. Either of them. I was pretty impressive.”
“In the land of my mothers, those who steal children
declare ashwar. A holy war against the spirit of tribe. So
their covetous juntak are shorn from their bodies and cast
into the ﬁre, so their seed may not spread, but crackle
pleasantly and share warmth with tribe. Children peck
their eyes from their skulls with crow bones, so the nomen
shall be at the mercy of the tribe from which they sought to
steal. This is what you have earned.”
“Crow bones?”
“Crow bones.”
“Well, that sounds insidious. Lucky for me, we’re in
Republic territory. If you would just call the Sov—”
He shoots me point-blank in the chest with a tacNet. It
knocks the wind out of me and contracts. He drags the line
to Godeater’s saddle and barks at the griﬀin. Riderless, it
springs oﬀ the stone wing and into the winter air. Valdir
ﬂies beside it on gravBoots, keening a savage song. I’m
dragged beneath as we climb back to Eagle Rest, pissed
beyond all belief.
Last place I wanna die is Mars.

***EphraimValdir’s goons dump me unceremoniously onto the gravel.

The tacNet retracts, leaving patterns of duress on my skin.
Griﬀins set down and Valkyrie women slip from the saddles.
Male braves with red runes on their armor land beside
them in steaming gravBoots. One of them kicks my ass until
I stand to my bare feet. They ache from my failed escape
and the cold. Did I fracture them when I landed? “Anyone
got slippers?” I ask. None pay me any mind. “Fine. Socks
will do. You got socks?”
“They do not like Grays, Grarnir. Especially the men. The
braves were slaveknights in your legions, or gladiators, or
worse.” I turn toward the voice. Wrapped in his raven
cloak, the shaman sits in the lap of a giant headless statue
eating walnuts.
“Oh, you again.”
He slides down from the statue and wobbles toward me.
Valdir barks something in Nagal at him to the eﬀect of “Try

not to lose your idiot again, idiot.” The shaman ﬂaps his
crow cloak at the warlord and covers his earholes.
“You got any more slippers?” I ask him, tightening the fur
coat around me for the chill. “Lost the last pair.”
“Only a fool gives a gift when the ﬁrst is valued so little,”
he says. “I told you your destiny was not out the window.
Now you suﬀer.”
“Yeah, well. I’m Hyperionin. We’re natural skeptics.”
He tilts his big head and laughs. “Maybe next time you
are given something, you will value it.” He ﬂicks walnut
shells at my right leg.
“You gave me this?”
“Idea, not money.” He touches his chest. “Ozgard.” He
points at me. “Grarnir. It means—”
“Hold up. You’re Ozgard?”
He grins. “Ozgard the Mad. Ozgard the Bad. Ozgard the
Berryclad.” He bows.
“You’re not as blue as I expected.”
“Berries only for when gods dance,” he says, glancing at
Valdir.
“When do they dance?” I ask.
He smiles. “When blood spills. Worry not. Today for
talking only.”
Near Godeater, Valdir has taken oﬀ his ridiculous helmet.
The champion’s face is unusually delicate for an Obsidian.
His nose is twice broken, his cheeks gaunt and freckled.
But all the savagery can’t hide the avian structure of his
bones, the motes of silver in his black irises, his full,
notched lips, and the haughty grandeur of the only human
besides Darrow to have survived a duel with the Minotaur.
Gotta admit. He’s damn slick.
Valdir barks at Ozgard, this time motioning with his
ﬁngers, and we set oﬀ toward a large triumphal arch. The

women lead and pay me no mind, but the trailing men
catcall me and shove me with their axe hafts when I slow.
The path ascends up the spine of the mountain. My raw
right foot is yet without calluses and is agony on the stone.
“What’s this all about?” I ask Ozgard, panting a little for
the elevation.
“You will see.” He begins ticking oﬀ ﬁngers as we walk.
When he’s reached his twelfth, I curse.
“By Juno’s dilapidated tits…”
The path opens up to a damn impressive sight. Above
Eagle Rest, the stone training squares of the Bellona ludus
rib the mountainside, the highest disappearing into the
clouds. Where once generations of genetically modiﬁed
fascist knights trained in the arts of subjugation and
extermination, now thousands of Obsidian youths practice
calisthenics, climbing courses, and weapons training.
We make for a lower training square where a huge crowd
of warriors and older students have gathered amongst
broken statues. A lone crest of dirty-blond hair moves
amongst the white manes. Two trios duel as teams on the
training square. Electra, ﬁghting in sync with her trio, is
dismantling an Obsidian who must have her by ﬁfty kilos.
The lad looks as young as you can look while still having a
full beard. It’s coated in blood from a nose smashed ﬂat.
They wield traditional aurochs’ femur practice staves. The
opposing group seems to be trying to reach a large skull in
the center of the training square while Electra’s lot defend.
Valdir holds us up out of respect for the bout. The
Obsidians murmur amongst themselves, unable to pass up
a wager on bloodsport.
I’ve seen kids ﬁght before. It’s a bit like drunks ﬁghting
underwater. Electra’s like that except switch out the water
and put in an elastic rubber room, a human-sized needle,
and ﬂick it. Yet for all her mania, she ﬁghts as part of her
group, switching opponents, using her own allies to guard

her blind spots as she strikes. The instructor calls the ﬁght
when the last manboy of the opposing trio stumbles back
from a stave to the temple that makes him all soupy.
Electra doesn’t pursue.
Electra and her wingwomen help the fallen up. All six
bare their throats to the instructor, a lithe young Obsidian
woman with a topknot and black skuggi runes on her face,
and to another in the crowd before jogging to sit with other
students around the square. The little demon, Electra,
looks right at home. “Children of the tribe are hard,”
Ozgard murmurs to me. “Sent back to ice to learn our
ways. Hunt many days. Fight with axe from six summers to
death. Yet Valdir could not put boy and girl with children of
tribe. Their spirits are those of wolves.”
“Boy’s all right. Girl’s straight psycho. It’s in the blood.”
Ozgard makes a small sound of disagreement. “The
lesson is called the Three Seasons. Do you know this?” I
shake my head. “Three seasons of war exist. Wind, Fire,
and Ash. Pride, possession, annihilation. Freihild—”
“The one who cut oﬀ all those Syndicate balls?”
“Yes.” He gestures to the young instructor. “She gave
secret order to attacker, sweep enemy from square, reach
skull, or destroy enemy. Girl saw them advance for skull.
Girl listened. She became ice, and the enemy wing in the
end accepted it was her wing’s skull. Ownership was
respected. A balance found. This pleases the Queen.”
I follow his eyes to a patch of grass spotted with snow.
I’ve never seen Seﬁ the Quiet in person. She looks almost
inanimate as she sits amongst her Valkyrie on the knoll. All
legs and arms. No contained, kinetic violence like the Golds
—who always seem a hair trigger away from atomic. Only a
subdued, sleepy grandeur. Like one of the statues that
surround the training square. Her shoulders are broad but
bony under a fantastic high-collared white cloak with a blue
fur collar. Her right hand is gloved. A crown of what looks

like ice sits on her head. She watches intensely as a new
batch takes the square, sparing a long look for Valdir, who
tilts his chin upward toward his mate.
Pax is amongst the new batch. I trace the monsters he’s
supposed to ﬁght. It’s not just the size diﬀerence that
worries me for the more sensitive of the two Gold spawn.
It’s muscular development. Shy of puberty, Pax isn’t yet the
man he’ll become. Though his bare calves do look more
sculpted than’s right for a boy, the Obsidians are already
giants.
The three opponents take their places in a triangle and
receive their order from Freihild. Pax’s crew form together
around their skull, not yet knowing their enemy’s intent.
Pax seems uninterested. “That’s a trillion-credit skull you’re
about to let those goons crack,” I say.
Ozgard examines me. “You care about boy. Warmth still
in your stone heart. This is good.”
“It’s not a bloody marriage. He’s just my meal ticket. But
he ain’t like the other one.”
“No. She is better ﬁghter. He is more dangerous human.
I warned Queen. He will refuse lesson this time. Rage
festers inside. Watch.”
The Obsidians bellow a war challenge, which Ozgard
says is a Season of Wind. Their intent is to sweep Pax’s
crew from the square to show their valor. As Pax’s wingmen
move to the center, he separates and stands on the very
edge of the square. The three enemy don’t chase him. They
use their numbers to drive his wingmen back and oﬀ the
square. Then all three come for Pax in a V. As soon as they
are in striking range, Pax steps out. The veteran warriors
watching howl in condemnation. Pax’s enemies declare
victory, and spurn his cowardice by turning their backs on
him. He steps back into the square. Only Valdir smiles.
What follows is appalling.

Not the violence itself, but its tone of boredom and
clinical cruelty. Crack. The sound of femur on skull rattles
the training square. One of the Obsidians teeters sideways.
The other two brutes wheel around to ﬁght Pax. He silently
deconstructs them. He’s slower than Electra, and almost
looks asleep, but every movement is like part of a dance. As
if he’s seen this all happen before, and must bore himself
and mock the Obsidians by going through the motions. He
doesn’t need to, but he collapses the kneecap of one of the
older boys and then cracks his skull with a sweep of the
stave. As he spins out of the movement, I see his eyes were
closed. The other brings his stave down in a diagonal
downward strike at Pax’s head. Pax falls ﬂat on his back.
The stave strikes the ground and shatters. Pax grabs the
Obsidian’s ankle, pulls himself between the Obsidian’s legs,
ﬂips around him, ends up on the Obsidian’s back, and
brings his hand down on the Obsidian’s neck. Somehow he
grabbed a shard from the Obsidian’s broken stave and
buried it two ﬁngers deep in his neck.
“Do not move,” Pax says. “The bone is two millimeters
from your carotid artery.” The Obsidian’s eyes widen; he
goes very still. Pax slides from his back. The watching
warriors are disgusted; not one has moved, not even the
instructor. Pax turns to Seﬁ.
“You mock us?” Seﬁ asks in a quiet voice. “It was the
Season of Wind, not Ash.”
“Mock? No, Your Majesty. I understand the purpose is to
instruct me in the old ways of the Obsidian.” He points at
Ozgard, somehow noticing his arrival. “Your shaman
teaches the children of the Ice that war is the ﬁrst
language of all peoples, but not every war need be the last.
As a child, I am to be impressed with your wisdom. As
hostage, I am to be convinced by inclusion in your tribal
rites that I am an ally. As ward, I am to impart this lesson
upon my own people. To be friend of the Obsidians, who

showed me their sacred rituals and treated me with
respect. What a pity it is that there will be no Obsidians
left.”
The braves stand at this insult. Not rising to the insult
himself, Valdir watches the reactions of his fellows with
careful consideration. So he’s a thinking monster. Rather
handsome too, if you can get over the batwing ears.
“Gods forbid I insult your pride,” Pax crows. “A wonder
you have any left. If you still think war is a dialogue, allow
me to remind you the Golds of the Core do not believe you
are human beings. You are cattle. They created the Seasons
of War so the tribes would be locked in eternal strife. They
did not want their herd culled. They wanted it honed to
better wage their wars.
“From the crib the children of Peerless Scarred are now
raised to know one truth. War is not for pride or for land.
War is for extermination. Valdir the Unshorn knows this. He
served beside Ragnar’s father, Pale Horse, as a slaveknight
in the Grimmus Legions, then beside my father and Ragnar,
who put the razor in his hand. Many of your bloodbraves
have seen this in their service. Never has it been more
evident than upon Mercury, where my father faces atomic
annihilation.”
So the Red prick ended up back on Mercury. Must have
been a Gold counterattack. Is he still a fugitive?
“But you. You scurrilous lot. You hide from that truth
behind tradition. You abdicate oaths to feign wisdom. There
is no wisdom in the company of deserters. There is only
shame. You left your Morning Star to face your common
enemy alone. But do not fret.” His grin is the nasty sort I
did not know he had in him. “It will be short-lived when the
engines of doom kill my father and arrive on Mars to chase
even the oathbreakers to their graves. Make no mistake,
Seﬁ, Queen of the Obsidians, this is no war of Wind or
Fire.” He gestures to the dismantled Obsidian youth around

him, with pity to the one holding the bone fragment in his
neck. “This is a war of annihilation, and you are
outmatched by the darker breed of my kind.
“I am the son of the Morning Star. The ﬂesh and blood of
the man who broke your chains. Yet you hold Electra and
me as insurance and to bargain for ships and information.
So I look upon you with my father’s eyes to ask: what do
your old ways say of honor?”
He drops the femur and walks out, leaving the Obsidians
in stony silence.
“Damn, son.” I scratch my leg, remembering what an
idiot I was at his age. Electra rushes to catch up to Pax.
Seﬁ watches them go, and signals their guards to follow.
But the accusations Pax made remain in his wake. All is not
well in the warbands of the Obsidian host. “Talk about a
guilt trip.”
“Yes, he is…precocious,” Ozgard murmurs, clearly
disagreeing with Pax. Oddly, Valdir does not. His eyes
watch Pax with something like sorrow, and when he
marches down to meet his Queen, it is as if the weight of
ten worlds were on his shoulders. His anxiety evaporates
only when he passes by the instructor Freihild. She takes
pains not to meet his eyes. She is a pretty young thing.
Lithe instead of muscular, without the hirsute appearance
so common in her people. File that one away for later.
I am led down to Seﬁ. Despite just being dressed down
by a prepubescent plutocrat, she is more impressive than
her reputation. And it is a colossal reputation. Warlord,
Gold killer, hero of the Rat War, sister of the demigod
Ragnar Volarus, Queen of the Obsidians. She is not
barbarically handsome like Valdir, or lively like Freihild.
Instead she’s a cold fusion between worlds. A horizontal
iron bar punctures her nose at the bridge, even as a
cochlear implant blinks in her ear. Astral runes mark the
shaved sides of her head. A datapad is embedded in her left

forearm. Her eyes are large black marbles, but in the right
light show ﬁbers of optic implants. A second set of blue
eyes are tattooed on her eyelids. Fourteen long, heavyknuckled ﬁngers fold together in her lap, stroking her valor
tail.
And then I see the weapon she wears. The inert blade of
the razor that punched through Trigg’s chest ten years ago
is coiled around the long leather glove that reaches up to
the elbow. The same blade that killed her brother, Ragnar. I
blink like a dumb blacktooth addict. Thought Barca owned
Aja’s blade.
Valdir kneels before his mate and bares his throat before
announcing me and stepping to the side. Seﬁ raises an
eyebrow at my bloody feet and knees. “He is guest, Valdir.”
“He dressed himself while falling out a window.”
“Climbing gracefully,” I correct. “Njar ga hae, skati,” I
say to Seﬁ, baring my throat in respect and submission.
Valdir is shocked I know any Nagal.
Seﬁ is not surprised. She accepts my respect with an
open palm to show she holds no weapon against me. “Njar
ga hir, grár. Hir ganga ni hallr.” She nods to the White who
stands behind her clutch of Valkyrie. “Xenophon said you
knew our ways. Fótr heill?”
“Sorry? Nagal’s a little rusty.”
“Limb is healthy?”
“Seems like.” I wiggle the appendage. “Surprised you
sprung for ﬂeshtech. Not cheap. Suppose I should thank
you for that.”
“It is a gift.” She shrugs. “My court is large from long
war. I welcome all. Including you, Scarhunter.” She says
the title fondly and tilts her head. “Your body wanted
death. Your heart is not pure. It became silent three times.
Narcotics weakness.”

Valdir makes a sound of disgust and lies down on the
ground beside his mate to comb his hair. He looks like a
bloody Frankish painting.
“Valdir thinks you are stupid to use zoladone.”
“He is stupid,” Valdir says.
Seﬁ sets a hand on his shoulder. “He thinks that I am
stupid to waste wind on you.” She spares a smile for
Ozgard. “But I know weakness in your kind does not mean
broken. So tell me, why kill passions with zoladone?”
I glance at Aja’s razor.
“Makes life’s ﬂow a bit smoother.”
“Poor little man,” she mocks. “Life is meant to be felt.
Else why live? Valleys make the mountains.”
I nod to Ozgard, who has strayed back to the training
square to examine the blood on the stone. “That fellow
right there’s high as a cloud. He seems to be living just
ﬁne.”
“Fool’s comparison. God’s Bread ﬁlls warrior with heat of
gods. Spirit Berry opens mind. Lets one hear Aesir.
Zoladone makes warrior cold, narrows mind. Makes
machine man. Vile.”
“And Fever Cloud?” I ask. “Your berserkers love that.”
Her face darkens. “Berserkers are no more. Fever is an
evil I do not accept. It makes men savages. We are not
savages.” The only other Color on the knoll besides
Obsidian is a lean White in midnight robes. It’s a logos. I
thought they were all killed by lynch mobs. Bald, childish of
face, the White could be thirty or eighty years old. You
never can tell. Their skin is the color of raw chicken. Their
eyes the color of milk. A large diamond is embedded
between the eyes to signify their class. If anyone’s on a
permanent zoladone high, it’s that mammalian computer. I
don’t point out the hypocrisy.

“With Spirit Berry, Ozgard sees god’s hand upon your
shoulder,” Seﬁ continues. “He is responsible for the breath
you draw. You crashed in a scrapland. Scavengers found
you. There were Brothers of the Ice amongst them. They
are known to Ozgard and oﬀered you to me.”
Well, that’s a turn. “And the wee warlords. Must have
cost you a fortune to outbid the Sovereign.”
“My respect was payment enough to them.”
“Syndicate must have loved that.”
“They attempted to substantiate their claim,” the White
says. “The Unshorn disabused them of that notion.”
Whatever malice Valdir Unshorn feels for Ozgard, he seems
to trust the White. He nods to the advisor like an old friend.
“So if the kids are your hostages, and we’re here…” I
murmur.
“Wards,” Seﬁ corrects.
“Sure. Then I take it to mean I’m not on Barca’s menu…”
“Why would we ﬁx you to kill you? That would waste
money. You have not hurt Alltribe.”
“I completely agree. But…ain’t you allies with the
Sovereign and House Barca?” I’ve never heard of the term
“Alltribe” before, but one thing at a time. “Hell, till that kid
started talking, I thought you were still the Reaper’s heavy
air cav.” By glancing around at the faces of her warriors, I
can tell that’s old news, but still raw, particularly for the
males. World changes fast. Was it Wulfgar’s death? Or
something else? If they aren’t allies, then my errand for the
Sovereign has probably been perceived as a double cross.
Which means Volga is likely dead back on Luna. I need
zoladone. The ache inside nearly makes the knees buckle.
“So I’m thinking I’m alive for a reason,” I say. “It ain’t
gratitude for this little boon. It ain’t ﬁdelity for an old
Scarhunter. I’ve been thoroughly reminded what you lot do

to thieves.” I glance at Valdir. “So maybe tell me what this
is all about.”
Seﬁ surprises me by standing.
“Come, Mr. Horn. There is something I would like to
show you.”
—
Seﬁ leads me from the training ludus through hangars that
once held Bellona warcraft. Within the stone caverns, a
nation of people is set to one industry: knowledge. Obsidian
youths labor beside old women, young men, war-tested
braves, learning skills that ten years ago were forbidden to
them under pain of liquidation. They study under Orange
master mechanics, Blue navigators mapping astral
trajectories and training in ﬂight simulators. They work
with Green coders, Yellow doctors, and Red builders. It is
an odd sight.
Seﬁ says nothing as we walk, and by the time we end our
little tour in another garden of broken Bellona statues, my
head is full, my eyes are struggling to stay narrowed in
contempt, and my bare feet ache like hell. Seﬁ gestures for
me to sit at a long table set for two. Pale faces marked with
black runes watch from the shadows of the garden. Skuggi.
A chill goes down my spine as I sit. The spirit assassins.
Valdir’s eyes linger on them before he sits on the rubble of
a statue.
The chair is a relief for my leg. A bowl of warm water
ﬁlled with black ﬂowers is brought for my feet by a
stunning Pink servant. I sigh as I dip my feet in and feeling
returns to them along with a peculiar tingling that must be
from the ﬂowers. Ozgard murmurs there is nightgaze in the
water before wandering to the garden.
Night is coming. The sun ebbs in the sky. Battered
Olympia sulks beneath Eagle Rest toward Loch Esmeralda

like a centurion’s wet cape and I sit with the queen.
“You’re breaking with the Republic,” I say, tightening my
fur coat. “That’s what you mean by Alltribe.” She says
nothing. “You already united Obsidians in war, promising
them a homeland, didn’t you? Looks like you found one.” I
glance down at Olympia, but Seﬁ’s eyes are on the horizon
beyond. That’s trouble.
“On the ice, when a limb is sick, it is cut away to save the
body. The Republic rots from inside with weakness, like you
before we cured you. My people must prosper. This is the
burden my brother set upon me. To prosper, we must
become one tribe. So I will found a kingdom for my people,
for all Obsidians.”
“Volkland,” her Valkyrie whisper, rattling their torcs at
the holy word. I begin to laugh. First the Reds, now the
coldbloods.
From his seat at the base of a statue, Valdir pulls his axe.
“He does not mock me, Valdir,” Seﬁ says. “He mocks life.
Is that not right, Mr. Horn?”
“Close enough. You’re buying yourself another war.”
“We know war,” Valdir says in dismissal.
“With your old pal the Reaper?” I ask, causing him to
stand up. “Ask Gold how fun that is.”
“Valdir is a warrior. Honest and proud,” Seﬁ says, waving
her mate down. Valdir simmers in discontent, and I don’t
think it’s just aimed at me. “He speaks truth, because he
lives true. We know war. But it is not all we know or will
know. Seven centuries, they say kill. So we kill. Seven
centuries, they say send sons to stars. So we send sons.
Republic says we are free. Then Senate says obey. Send
sons and daughters to stars. Kill for us. Die for us.
“We ask only for homeland, they give rocky islands on
Earth. We ask for city, because we are not savages who
want to ﬁsh all day.” She waves at Eagle Rest and Olympia.

“They give broken ruins, and say be satisﬁed. What is there
for us on Mercury? We cannot live under weight of sun. We
are hated there. So now we say the word Ragnar taught us:
no. Now we embrace the truth Morning Star taught us:
destiny is not given, destiny is taken.”
So much for Seﬁ the Quiet.
I look for Ozgard. I wonder if it was this destiny he saw
in the bones of a ﬁre, as he claims to have seen mine. I ﬁnd
him climbing a tree toward an owl’s nest. Fitting.
I sigh. “What do you need me to steal? Come on, you
don’t have to butter me up.” Not feeling very masculine
with my feet in the little bowl of water, I slap my leg. “Call
in your debt.”
Seﬁ remains quiet as the slender Pink now brings a
bottle of wine. He shows her the seal to prove it has not
been tampered with and pours it into three golden goblets.
“Thank you, Amel,” Seﬁ says.
The White logos steps forward to sip the wine, swishes it
in its mouth, swallows, and nods as it detects no pathogens.
Straight eerie logos shit. Even Arbiters like Oslo, my
Ophion Guild contact, are wary of logos. They’re null as a
doll down below and on a permanent zoladone high. Only
the richest Golds could aﬀord them for trophies.
It seems Seﬁ collects rare creatures. And rare wine. She
sniﬀs the wine in her goblet.
“What do you want me to steal?” I repeat as she takes a
sip.
She looks both insulted and mildly amused by my tone.
How long since anyone’s had the guts to give her lip when
she’s got men like Valdir by the balls? “Of all the words in
Common, do you know my favorite?” she asks.
Jove on high. “Destiny? Voluble? Captive audience?”
She leans forward. “Practical. Nagal is the superior
language to Common. It conveys the soul better and has

more beautiful words. Weldschmer. The pain in discovering
the world fails to fulﬁll expectation. Fenwehr. The longing
to be somewhere else. But we have no word for practical.
Only honorable or shameful.”
Her eyes look through me. “You are this way. I need
practical men. As master mechanics teach our lame and
weak, as Blues teach our small and bright, you will teach
my skuggi.” She makes a clicking sound, and Freihild, the
instructor from the training, steps from the shadows of the
garden along with several other skuggi.
They are all young, but none are beautiful like Freihild.
Her face, though tattooed with subtle black markings, is
unscarred. Her cheekbones are sharp, her eyes slanted and
as close to dark blue as Obsidian black. All the skuggi are
more slender than Valdir or the brutish Valkyrie, more like
deer than elk. Freihild even has the eyelashes of a deer.
Valdir notices too, don’t you, boy?
“Teach them what exactly?” I ask. “I’m no assassin.
They’re the best.”
“We are not,” Freihild says in a slow, mocking voice. “The
Howlers and Gorgon are the best. It is truth.”
“Good thing you kept one of them as allies, eh?”
Freihild is amused.
“My skuggi are orphans from ruins of shattered tribes,”
Seﬁ says. “They promise their spirits to their Queen. Their
loyalty is beyond the ﬂesh, so their wombs are stripped,
their seed made infertile by my shaman. But do you know
why my skuggi are not the best?” She motions for Freihild
to step back. “Not because we do not know how to walk
with the silent shadow, or bring the long death, but
because Howlers and Gorgons are more than assassins. My
skuggi are not. They provide one solution: death. Practical
creatures provide many solutions. For Red Hand death
works. Skuggi have hunted them these last weeks. Six

thousand they have killed for me. Red Hand ﬂees. The
Republic was too soft on them. Soon they will be no more.
But I will need my skuggi to beat the Gorgons, to beat the
Howlers if necessary. Teach them to be…freelancers. To
melt into city. To exist behind enemy lines. To gain allies. To
sow discord.” She points a long ﬁnger of her gloved hand at
me. “You stole the Sovereign’s child. You will give us your
knowledge.”
If she wants a kingdom, she knows she’ll have to play
dirty like all the rest.
With a grunt, Valdir bursts to his feet and stalks away.
Seﬁ watches him go with a strange expression. “My mate
believes we are mistaken to leave the Reaper. He does not
wish us to change or practice shameful arts. But he is just a
man. Men are impulsive and blinded by the snake between
their legs.”
“Won’t argue that.” Then I say with narrowed eyes,
“Skuggi are sacred to your people. Servants of Allmother
Death, yes? Valdir won’t be the only one pissed. Your
braves know it might’ve been Gold that held the chain, but
Gray was the chain. You hate us even more than you hate
them.”
She makes a dismissive motion.
“Your Majesty, I’ve seen berserkers rape wounded
legionnaires on the battleﬁeld as they scalp them. Your
berserkers. I don’t have any loyalty to the legion. But those
Grays were my people. Gold might be scariest. You might
be biggest. Red might be toughest. Gray…we got the
longest memory.”
The idea of teaching the skuggi to become even more
eﬀective makes me nauseous. This is selling my soul in a
way I never considered.
“That world is past. Not all of the clans believe as I do.
They resist change. But they follow strength. I am

strength.” Seﬁ runs a long ﬁnger over the rim of her wine
cup. “You are cunning. You made fool of Lionheart and the
Fox Lords. I want that cunning. I know how this world
works. I am willing to make you a very rich man.”
“And if I say no?”
“You are guest. When safe, you will be free.” Free to be
tossed oﬀ a high cliﬀ by Valdir, more like. “But a man on his
own is nothing. You will be hunted by Syndicate, Julii, Lion,
Republic…Goblin. You will be noman. No hearth. No blood.
No aeta. No hands to carry your cold body to the sky when
they ﬁnd you.”
“Cat’s got nothing on me.” I lean forward with a feline
grin. “I got a thousand lives. They can each have one.
Anyway, Mars is for suckers. I got business on Luna.”
“You speak of your woman.” Her eyes glimmer as I ﬂinch.
“Volga Fjorgan is on Luna no longer. Xenophon.”
The White steps forward. “Six weeks ago, two known
members of the Horn Gang were abducted from Augustan
property and are currently on Phobos, pending transfer to
Mars.”
I glance up at the twin moons moving over the city.
“Nah. Citadel is impenetrable. Place is crawling with
heavies, tech even I’ve never seen. The Minotaur got
chewed up with a full century of Peerless. Real Peerless…”
I squint at them. They don’t look like they are capable of
bluﬀing. “Who?”
“The Julii,” the White says.
“She doesn’t have the skill set.”
“But she has something better. Money,” Seﬁ replies.
Xenophon explains. “Ignorant of Virginia’s deal with you,
she employed the freelancer known as the Figment to
collect your gang members as leverage against you after
frontal confrontation with the Sovereign promised to
escalate.”

“That psycho?” A chill goes through me, but it makes
sense. Birds of a feather, and all that. I squint at Seﬁ. “You
said two. Who’s the extra?”
“The Red,” Xenophon replies. “Your inside woman.”
“Lyria? Lyria of bloodydamn Lagalos?” I can’t even
laugh. I thought she was a cooked little rabbit. I lean back
over the railing, mind whirling like a rubicon wheel. Get
out, oldboy. Save your precious skin while you can.
But this voice is quieter without the Z. Lyria of Lagalos
and Volga Fjorgan, alive after all, and above Mars. What a
thing. That settles it, even if I pretend it doesn’t. Of course
I have to throw a ﬁt ﬁrst, but I’d have had to agree anyway
just to survive the meeting. Now I actually might stick
around, till I get what I need.
“How do you know they’re alive?” I ask. “If the Julii took
them—”
A holo appears in Seﬁ’s long hand. It is of a cell. Inside,
Volga rocks back and forth. The poor girl. I see her smiling
on race day in Hyperion. Laughing at the bar. Oﬀering me a
cocktail. She was just a kid when I pulled her in. I was all
she had. But she didn’t have me. Not really. I bite my
tongue bloody so I don’t belt out into tears. Without the Z
valve, it’s all so much. Her image ﬂickers away.
The cold bitch Queen stares at me. “The Julii does not
waste resources. I told her I would pay her for their
release. If you pledge fealty to me, they are yours.”
Don’t do it, oldboy. She’s gonna die bad. Dreamers all do.
Don’t you know?
But some greater, hungrier part of me scrambles after
this new ﬂicker of hope. Volga, I’m gonna save you,
Snowball. Treat you like the queen you are.
“What’s the Julii paying you for the kids?” I ask, trying to
distract myself and them. “Gotta be a big nut.”
“That is not your concern,” Seﬁ says. “Your answer.”

Time seems to thicken. I ﬁnd myself nodding.
“No fealty,” I say. “I’m no one’s dog, and I’m sure as
Hades not dying on Mars. You draw up a contract with
Amani Guild specs—”
Xenophon produces a holodocument from a datapad and
ﬂicks it to the table. Seﬁ smiles. She knows who she’s doing
business with. Clever girl. I glance through it. It’s Amani
Guild specs all right, not some savage blood oath. Maybe
the world is changing.
Seﬁ sips her wine as I eye the particulars. Three-year
sunset clause. Contract void if I take zoladone. What is it
with everyone? Recognition of skuggi deathmark on my life
if I skip out. That’s fun, and probable. I breeze to the
remuneration and feel my toes tingle.
The girls in six weeks. A quarter kilo of grade-A
diamonds in a Martian month, a ship with the deed, a
signing bonus of twenty-ﬁve million credits. Fuck me.
They’re overpaying by a kilometer.
“I want the girls on signature.”
“No,” Xenophon says predictably. “You are a ﬂight risk.”
“Then double the monthly salary. A half kilo plus
expenses. Gonna be killing my neutral reputation throwing
my lot in with blackops spirit killers, and my girls need
retirement money.” The White begins to say no, but I cut it
oﬀ. “Listen, milky. You’re the one with the scarcity problem.
Fixed my leg up. Spared me from the Howlers. You need
me for something you can’t do. And I’m betting it ain’t just
teaching skuggi.” None of them react, but that’s not saying
much for these folk. “You can’t move your army from Earth
without showing your cards. I get it. But that means
something’s coming. You’ll tell me when I need to know.
That’s ﬁne. But I’m getting hazard pay, because I’m sure
it’s gonna be manic.”

“You think highly of your talents, Mr. Horn,” Seﬁ says.
“Or very little of your life…”
“Now it’s one kilo. Wanna go for two?”
I put my hand out for the kill.
Seﬁ’s entourage tenses at the insult. Even gibbering
blackteeth know Obsidian rules of contact. But then she
surprises me. My hand disappears beneath her seven
gloved ﬁngers.
“To a fruitful endeavor,” she says. “One more task. The
Reaper’s boy is fond of you. He resists us. Bring him close.
We may need insurance.”
“Sure, yeah, whatever.”
I grin as she releases my hand. I got you, Snowball. Just
hold on and I got you.

***Ephraim“Listen up, and listen good,” I say just like my tessarius

did half a life ago.
Two hundred black-eyed assassins watch me inside the
empty hangar with suspicion. Taken from the remnants of
tribes shattered by Gold after Seﬁ joined the Rising and
formed into one of the most feared assassin groups in the
war, they are all prime specimens, and not one of this
skuggi band is over thirty.
Some, like their leader, Freihild, are barely taller than I
am. Others are built like tree stumps, others taller even
than Ragnar Volarus. Others spindly and clever-faced. Each
wears their bone-white hair in a topknot and a pale blue
sleeveless tunic with the Alltribe’s winged crest tattooed in
black on either shoulder. Those will have to go.
“My name is Ephraim ti Horn, and I was once considered
the third-best freelancer in Hyperion, which means I was
the third-best freelancer alive. Two months ago, I became
the best. Those rumors you’ve heard? They’re true. I stole

the heir of the Reaper and the Sovereign, and the
hellspawn of the Goblin and Victra au Julii. And I stole them
twice, with nothing but a Red, a Green, and an Obsidian.
Oh, and the second time I did it solo.”
They’re skeptical. Good. They take their cues from
Freihild, who looks at me as I’d look at Volga trying to
teach me how to use a coﬀeemaker. I glance at Ozgard,
who stands beside me nodding along as if I spoke the
greatest wisdom ever known. Since my fateful meeting with
Seﬁ, he’s shadowed me like a somnolent ghost, eating
walnuts, sleeping outside my door and sometimes in my
room with absolutely zero understanding of personal space,
private property, or hygiene. Somewhere in that time, he
claims to be teaching Pax and Electra the ways of the
Obsidian, but frankly I doubt it. I know drug addicts, and
he smacks of one.
“Now, you lot have done some killing. You know that
business. You’ve fallen in Rains, stormed breaches, killed
Golds and a whole lot of people that looked just like me.
You know asymmetrical warfare, direct action, and
reconnaissance like the top of your bleached pubes. But
your natural talents are not enough. Your Queen is of a
mind that the world is changing, and you must change with
it.”
Freihild yawns. I jab a ﬁnger at her. “You. What’s the
best way to take out a killsquad of fully armored Gold?”
“When they stop to piss,” she answers. There’s laughter.
“Wrong. With a high-powered neodymium magnet.”
“That would not kill them,” she says.
“Killing ain’t your mission anymore. Your queen wants a
kingdom, so she needs operators focused on the mission,
not the kill.”
“EMP would be better,” Freihild says.

“Wrong, moron!” I say, irritating her savage sensibilities.
“Unless it’s nuclear powered, you ain’t gonna do shit to
that new armor. You’re two years late. If you’re not reading
mechanical specs, you’re not doing your job. When was the
last time you read a spec report, skuggi?”
Freihild doesn’t answer.
“Thought so. I will teach you unconventional domestic
warfare:
Soc
Legion
spycraft,
surveillance,
countersurveillance, how to dance a laser grid, subvert
security systems, foster insurrection on enemy soil, groom
assets of every Color without beating them to a pulp, talk
about anything for ten minutes, use neodymium magnets,
hot-wire anything with an engine, manipulate anything with
a prick or gash, and how to do it all without anyone
knowing you were ever there. You will become ghost
soldiers of the city jungle. You will not just become part of
the underworld. You will own it. And I will make you
appreciate the works of the Spanish Surrealists. Because
they are the best artists the world ever conspired to create,
and they are unappreciated by modern society. Are there
any questions?”
They stare back blankly.
Ozgard clears his throat. “Ephraim.”
“Yes, Ozgard?”
“Forgot to mention. Only half speak Common.”
I close my eyes. “I hate you.”

***Virginiafederal tax-shelter
provisions for unionized labor, guilds, and other
collectives deleterious to the will of the free market. This
brings us to proposal six point three…”
Senator Britannia ag Krieg has period marks for eyes,
and a widow’s peak that could chip ice for my nightly
bourbon. Chief negotiator for the Zenith Ring, the Silvers’
common interest federation, Krieg stands in the center
hollow of their halo table located within Sun Industries’
Zenith Spire. Stained by city lights, the clouds form a
carpet far beneath the spire. At ﬁfteen unnecessary
kilometers in height, it is the tallest building in all
Hyperion, dwarﬁng the memory of the old Society military
headquarters. Another apt metaphor for its creator as well
as our time.
There are no senators present, save Britannia. The kept
pets are sequestered downstairs, awaiting the orders of
their true masters. Thirty-three Silver trillionaires of the
Zenith Ring sip tea from Ionian porcelain in smug
satisfaction that they don’t visit the Sovereign, she visits
them. Heralding from asteroids, planets, moons, and
deepspace trade stations, they share only four common
virtues: their Color, their religious conviction in their
deﬁnition of the free market—not that they mind the
government being their chief customer—their obsession
with individual autonomy, and their determination to act, at
all times, like complete assholes.
Not one of the oligarchs, save Quicksilver, was rich
before the war. Now they represent the machine of war—
Drachenjäger
factories,
shipyards,
textiles,
pharmaceuticals, rubber plants, shipping interests, silicon
products. Without their companies, which I admit they did
build against intense competition, we’d ﬁght with sticks
and stones.
Quicksilver, the lone quadrillionaire, doesn’t bother
sitting at a place of prestige. He’s oﬀ to the far right of the
asteroid-diamond table, sandwiched between a munitions
supplier and the asteroid-mining magnate who donated the
table and deducted it from his taxes.
The slump-shouldered, ham-ﬁsted titan of industry
doesn’t look like the man who, along with Fitchner,
engineered the destruction of the Society. He is more
concerned with the sugar in his tea than Senator Krieg’s
outrageous demands. He knows he’ll get what he wants,
because I don’t want to ﬁght with sticks and stones,
because I need their Silver votes, because without his
helium, the ships he builds us will sputter and die.
Even the eerie silver orb robot that ﬂoats ever-present
over his shoulder couldn’t make him aware of my promise
to Publius. If he knew, he’d be beating me in private with
verbal uppercuts and haymakers. He has been an enigma
of late. His demands increasingly peculiar and opaque.

Which leads me to consider the possibility that he knows
something I don’t.
I interrupt Krieg’s soliloquy to gesture behind her. “What
the devil is that?” The artwork beyond the ring table is a
ﬁfteen-meter-tall vanity of unreﬁned metal morphed into a
shape roughly mimicking a winged heel.
Britannia looks back at it in irritation. “That is the Dawn
of Hermes. Sculpted from fused Oort Cloud dust by the
Master Maker Glirastes of Mercury. The honorable Regulus
ag Sun acquired it two years ago at an Ophion Guild
auction for a record purchase price of ninety-four billion
credits.”
Roughly the cost of two destroyers, or enough food to
feed the Cimmerian assimilation camps for forty-six and a
half months.
The industrialists clatter their teaspoons on their teacups
in salute.
Krieg continues her ransom demands. It is not the ﬁrst
time I’ve wished for her to be infected by the agonizing
intrusion of a parasitic organism. I should have introduced
her to my brother when I had the chance. By the sound of
Nakamura’s shifting armor behind me, I can tell she
agrees.
A middling account executive for silicon goods before the
Rising, Senator Krieg made her fortune negotiating
buyouts of liberated mines from Red clans for Sun
Industries during Quicksilver’s mad dash to buy up the
majority of the h-3 market. What I released from my
family’s holdings to Reds, he purchased not two months
later.
The Reds were properly represented by the White Guilds
and chose gross proceeds instead of a one-time buyout. The
contracts were thorough. It was all perfectly legal. But so is
murder during wartime. Who possibly could have expected

there to be no gross proceeds, because the immensely rich
helium mines still, according to the books, operate at a net
loss?
Me, namely. But the Reds, like everyone else in our
Society, suspected I acted in self-interest and thus paid no
heed to my warnings.
“…resetting automation limits to their former levels, and
concluding with an elimination of Senator Caraval’s ‘ﬂesh
and bone’ quotas…” Her words devolve into a faint buzzing,
and I yawn as she progresses to the last demands before
ﬁnally reaching her denouement.
“…an oral agreement will suﬀice for now, but
amendments must be placed on the bill before the vote.
Not all, naturally. We don’t want to kill it, but certain
provisions so that we can feel comfortable moving forward
in good faith. These are our…recommendations.”
The teacups tinkle, and the industrialists sit back in smug
satisfaction to wait for my usual reluctant agreement. But
I’ve been saving up my chips. I uncross my legs and put my
boots up on the table. Quicksilver sees and tilts his head in
interest. I extend a hand backward. Nakamura hands me
my apple. I strip small pieces away with my bootknife and
watch the Silvers as I eat.
Quicksilver chuckles to himself, and waits in good nature
for me to conclude the show. They look so smug. And why
not? They’ve always gotten what they want from me,
because it was cheaper to agree with them than to teach
them. And they are good at what they do—staggeringly
eﬀicient, inventive, ambitious, and productive. But ancient
Celts didn’t invent spurs because horses are obedient.
When the apple is little but core, I toss it on the table. I
extend my hand back to Holiday again. She hands me
earcaps. I insert them and reach back one last time. Now
she hands me her anti-tank railriﬂe.

“My answer to your proposal.”
Spitting an apple seed out of my mouth, I stand, shoulder
the gun, take aim over the oligarchs, and ﬁre a round into
the Dawn of Hermes. They dive to the ﬂoor in terror. The
magnetically propelled uranium round carves a trail of blue
friction ﬂames over their heads, setting the hair of Senator
Krieg on ﬁre, and hits the statue with the force of a pilum
missile.
The oligarchs hold their wailing ears and peek out from
behind the table. Smoke twirls through the hole blasted in
the back of the room. The statue is in ruins. I admire the
gun and toss it back to Nakamura.
I take oﬀ my earcaps to dead silence.
“You just bankrupted three insurance companies,”
Quicksilver says, stirring the dust into his tea before taking
a sip.
One of the Silvers clutches his cravat and, ears deafened
by the report of the gun, shrieks in angst.
“Apologies, Bartus,” Quicksilver says. “I told you, you
should have split the liability.”
“The forty-nine-year-old human male is temporarily
experiencing reduced auditory function of ninety percent,”
Quicksilver’s sentinel robot explains.
“Oh. Remind me to tell him later.”
“Yes, master.”
Of the thirty-three industrialists, Quicksilver alone did
not move. The moment the gun touched my hand, the air
distorted around him, bending the ﬂames away. Sound also
seems not to have penetrated. Curious technology. Did it
come from his Sentinel drone? I can’t tell. It drifts above
his head like a pendulum, emitting arcane high-pitched
frequencies. Interesting. Holiday tracks it like a scout, no
doubt wondering how best to kill it, and how many ways it

could kill her. She better be using that sensor packet she
brought. I like mysteries even less than bad breath.
It is time to address the room. “My goodmen,” I repeat
four times until I have their attention. “Today is not a day
for extortion. Today is the day for patriots. You should ask
what you can do for our distressed Republic. Instead you
present it with demands. Instead of rallying votes to help
your comrades, you jockey for gain.” I look at Quicksilver. I
asked for a private meeting, and he ambushed me with this,
as I knew he would. For too long, he’s been distracted,
cantankerous, as if his coronation were on the horizon and
all this was merely an inconvenience. He’s working on
something, some project even with all my spies I am unable
to identify. We don’t have time for pet projects. What
hesitation I had is now gone. The deck must be reshuﬄed. I
soften my tone for him. “There was a time when two men
stood against tyranny. Fitchner au Barca and you. Where
did that man go?”
He doesn’t care to answer.
“Give them the recording, so I know they all heard me,” I
tell Nakamura.
I turn back to Quicksilver. “My answer to your extortion
is no. My counteroﬀer is this: You have ﬁve seconds to tell
your senators downstairs they will vote with me. Or…”
“Or what?” Quicksilver asks, as if I am still the aspiring
politico he knew twelve years ago. I am not. She had better
legs, but far less menace.
“Or I punish you in proportion to your ransom,” I say.
“You are being intractable for some inscrutable reason. So
you will be spanked.”
“Oh dear. How? Will you shoot more of my belongings?
Have Sevro drop the ceiling and castrate Daedalus over
there?”

A handsome young Silver caught digging in his ear
regains his hearing at just the wrong time. He pales and
looks at the ceiling. “What did I do? I make condensed
proteins.”
“Grow up, Virginia. These antics of your family have
grown tiresome.” Quicksilver jabs a ﬁnger into the table.
“This is how the world works. Quid. Pro. Quo.”
I nod to Nakamura.
She starts counting. “Five…four…”
“Ridiculous theatrics.” Quicksilver strokes that Gold
eyeball ring of his. “Matteo isn’t even this dramatic.”
“Three…two…one.”
I walk toward the door.
“Remember, we built this Republic!” Quicksilver calls
after me. “Us. Not you.” His voice spikes sharply toward
anger. “Virginia! Don’t be a fool. Come back and be
reasonable. You need us.”
“That’s what you fail to understand,” I say at the door.
“There’s no scarcity principle at play here, goodman. You
taught me better than anyone, where there’s need, a Silver
will always appear. Doesn’t have to be you.” I toss the
earcaps across the room. They land in Quicksilver’s teacup.
“Your votes, goodmen. If not for the Republic, for
yourselves.”
I leave.
Holiday smiles as we enter my shuttle. “Did you enjoy
that, ma’am?” she asks.
“Far too much.”
“Will Seﬁ strike before the vote?”
“I doubt it. We’ve gained half the Silvers today, but in a
month they’ll all come begging.” I look at my datapad and
glower. “To Sunhall. Looks like the Goblin has made a new
mess.”

***VirginiaThe chief assassin of the Syndicate is dead. The Duke of
Heads’ cranium has replaced that of a neo-Rococo mermaid
who endures the unwanted attention of a particularly
immoral agate satyr. The pool beneath is brackish with
blood. Scarlet frogs hop along the lip of the fountain. I am
thoroughly repulsed.
Bravo, Sevro. You’ve outdone yourself. Your wrath is so
legendary.
In my private oﬀice oﬀ Sunhall in the Citadel, I chew the
inside of my cheek and cycle the hologram. Theodora’s
investigators sent it from the North Hyperion mansion not
ten minutes ago. With Daxo managing the vote hunt, I have
precious time to spare to search for evidence they missed,
just no time at all for my untouched dinner.
The arch-assassin for the Syndicate was a Gray man with
a heavy mustachio held together at the ends by two
platinum bands. He had big bones. And a strong neck,
before it was severed by a razor. Amplifying the image, I

ﬁnd minor imperfections in the cut. Sevro’s razor. He’s the
only Howler who uses a serrated blade. Doesn’t make much
diﬀerence when the edge is so sharp, but he thinks it looks
scarier. He’s right.
Little else remains of the Duke’s body. The carnivorous
ﬁsh in the pool below were as thorough as my tax collectors
should be. All that remains is his skeleton, and the hook
that lowered him. What a waste of a chance. If Sevro ﬁnds
the Duke of Hands before I do and does this, then I fear we
will never ﬁnd who is truly behind this.
Since he snuck onto this moon, Sevro has brought the
horrors he learned on the front lines ﬁghting the Fear
Knight to the prime stream of the holoNet. I’ve managed to
cover most of the massacres up, but some slip through.
To make matters worse, he’s in lonewolf protocol. No
contact until the mission is complete, until the Queen is
dead. Damn Victra for setting him to this madness. It has
netted him little more than eight hundred Syndicate thorns,
seven narcotics-processing facilities, sixteen minor nobles,
a duke, and a duchess, but no Queen. It has cost him far
more. Three Howlers, three weeks of precious time, the
attention of the Republic Warden, and a declaration of war
by the Syndicate Queen.
Gruesome details ﬂicker past: appendages nailed to
walls, headless bodies sitting around an equally oﬀensive
topaz table, corpses in the atrium wearing glossy green
armor. Emerald Orphans, by their markings. A freelancer
company from Mars, consisting of elite ex-legion Grays.
Mercenaries. A predictable but frustrating escalation.
Unable to stop him on her own, the Queen of the
Syndicate has turned to the free market to rid herself of
Victra’s attack dog.
The highest-priced contract in the history of the war
hangs over Sevro’s head. It is suﬀicient to draw every

bounty hunter, hitman, and freelancer in the Republic to
Luna for the greatest private manhunt in a century.
A small economy has spawned from the underworld
wagers on who will claim top prize. Sevro will not see it
coming. Death will fall from a quiet man atop a skyscraper
some kilometers away. A smart-slug or a DNA-seeking
hunterkiller drone. And then my brother’s best friend is
gone.
He should be on Mars with Victra, or Mercury with
Darrow, or working with me. Is revenge worth that much to
you, Victra?
Gods, she pisses me oﬀ.
They underestimated the Queen. As did I, at ﬁrst. She
has
training.
Military-style
organization
and
compartmentalization, safe-houses, heavy arms, an
impressive network of spies, even several military-grade
attack ships.
Theodora’s women were thorough in their forensic
investigation of the scene. I give up on ﬁnding exotic clues
and deactivate the hologram. Here in a vestibule of my
private sanctuary, the walls are covered with fragments of
paper. Remnants of my childhood that Darrow thinks best
burned. I keep them to remember what madness lurks
within myself. To stay on the stiletto path, and realize what
waits if I am tempted to wander oﬀ.
Within the frames on the wall of the vestibule are 311
puzzles, all that remains of those that my brother Adrius
would make for me when we were children. I stare at them.
Many are mazes, others complicated cryptograms or
esoteric experiments. Each I solved. But I cannot solve this
puzzle of who threatens my Republic. I gently stroke the
leaves of the night lily at the base of the puzzles. Many
more of the plants decorate the room. My oﬀice, like many
of the rooms in the Citadel, contains defense mechanisms.
Most are violent in nature. But some, like the escape tube

concealed in the walls behind the puzzles, are only meant
for retreat. I prefer the ﬂowers, personally. The maids and
staﬀ know they are never to be touched, on pain of
incarceration. They don’t know why. The lily’s necrotic
needles quiver at my touch, but it was gentle enough to
leave them docile. If one seized the plant, the needles
would spring forward. The pain is said to be worse than
amputation. The poison spreads slowly, but eventually
death follows. Dangerous to keep around, but so
incongruent with the rest of my personality that it seems a
necessary last line of defense.
I cross my arms as I look at the puzzles. They all
challenged me. My brother was clever. But once they are
solved, they seem so simple.
Will I think the same when I unwind the Queen of the
Syndicate?
When I discover why Quicksilver continues to stonewall?
I look around. Am I being played right this very moment?
A ﬁre crackles in the hearth across the room, and I
wonder if this isn’t the beginning of my tragedy. If Victra
fails in her clumsy gambit to retrieve my son, if no ships
sail to Mars, will I reign for sixty more years in the shadow
of their memories? An old woman in an empty castle?
Boots clack against the metal ﬂoor behind me, and I seal
the vestibule of puzzles behind a security wall. “I just spit
in the eye of my oldest ally, Nakamura. While the godfather
of my son decorates my doorstep with corpses. I could
really use some good news.” I turn to face the centurion at
the door. She wears a rare smile along with her black lion
assault armor. In her arms is my white box. “She got him?”
“She got him. Lionguard is kitted and ready to roll.”
I grab both her shoulders and kiss her straight on the
mouth. She gawps at me and then laughs as I rush out the
door. “Come, Centurion, the hunt’s afoot.”

—
Four stealth shuttles ﬁlled with Lionguard elite, a
Sovereign, and a former Howler ﬂy west as the blitz
presses into its twenty-fourth hour. Beneath, Hyperion
boils. Armored, with my precious white box in my lap, I
watch the holoDisplays.
Dancer was right. Tempers have escalated.
On the Via Appenia, a human river of Vox march south
toward Hero Center, united now with Lunese who fear war
returning to their moon. Optimate supporters and my
husband’s zealots march west along the Via Triumphia.
Riot police, energy barriers, and mechanized units descend
to keep the peace.
Yet the demagogues keep pouring the fuel.
ArchImperator Zan stokes fear to swell the supporters of
the Vox’s radical wing. She pounds her pulpit, as
enthusiastically as a frigid Blue can stirring up a frenzy of
Lunese patriotism, claiming Atalantia will come to Luna
and not a ship will be left to protect the moon. Vox
Blackchains—lowColor civilian shock troops wearing
chained necklaces—terrorize highColor neighborhoods,
beat Silver businessmen, break windows, and intimidate
local magistrates into begging senators to vote for Luna.
Worried midColors ﬂock to Dancer’s moderation. He
soothes them, his message carrying hope and notions of
sacriﬁce. It is easy for them to feel noble. It isn’t the
children of Luna who die on Mercury.
Despite Publius the Incorruptible’s public support for my
cause, we have lost the Silvers and the vote is descending
into madness. Back home on Mars, Reds burn eﬀigies of
Dancer, and march with slingBlades. The same crowds that
sing the Forbidden Song wave lion icons and chant,
“Lionheart! Reaper!” ArchGovernor Rollo gives a rousing
screed that ends with “Treason might ﬂoat on Luna, but not

on Mars. Any senator that votes to kill the Free Legions
and the Reaper of Mars better enjoy that bloodsucking
moon, for if they come back, I’ll pull their bloodydamn
feet!”
Thunderous applause.
To make matters worse, it looks as though the Obsidians
will vote against me. Seﬁ is playing too many games for her
own good. Does she not know that every step she has taken
since she departed Luna has been part of my design? I
thought her wiser than that.
Amidst all this, a ray of light. Theodora has proven
herself worthy of the second chance I gave her after she
resorted to torturing Lyria of Lagalos against my orders.
We unload on the roof of the blacksite before the shuttles
can set down. Leading the Lionguard ops team, Holiday
jumps out like a kuon hound, her ﬂinty eyes roving the
shadows for signs of danger, her ambi-riﬂe packed with all
sorts of Sun Industries mayhem. I land in gravBoots with a
heavy clomp, tuck my white box under my arm, and head
toward a door stamped with radiation warnings.
The blacksite is quiet. The lights dim. Behind two highsecurity doors, several of Theodora’s Splinter operatives,
deadly Pink assassins in next season’s Hyperion couture,
lounge incongruously atop mass-produced furniture,
smoking burners with a famous Violet soprano of the
Hyperion Opera. The soprano bursts to his feet upon my
entrance. He’s still wearing the costume of a Renaissance
courtier: a rapier, a fur-trimmed night cloak, and a carnival
mask that dangles from a string around his neck. I applaud
as he sweeps up from his low bow.
“My Sovereign.”
“Bravo, Basillicus. I heard your performance tonight was
one for the ages. Both the aria and the fourth-act
seduction. Would that I had seen it all.”

“We all play our small part.” His voice rings clear and
thin. “And what a stage you gave us, my liege. Perhaps you
will attend the Orphia again soon, when the days are less
dire. Lucreto does so miss your patronage. Of our great
benefactors, we see not even the Master Carver these
days.”
In fact, no one has seen Mickey for a month. I have my
theories. Daxo’s are hilarious.
“Perhaps,” I say to the Splinter. “We all would be better
for seeing beauty more often. Your service tonight will not
be forgotten.”
“Hail Reaper,” he replies softly, pulling a small slingBlade
necklace from beneath his cravat. He kisses the blade as
though it were sacred. “We pray to the Vale and the Old
Man who stands astride the Path that he and the Lost
Legions will be delivered. We also pray for you.”
“Save your prayers to gods and spirits, Basillicus.
Humans made this mess. Humans will ﬁx it.”
The interrogation room is a soundproof white cube in the
center of a dilapidated propaganda factory, the windows of
which have been welded over. In the gloom, water slithers
down hunched old machines to feed fungus growing on
piles of plastic Ajas and toy Vanguards.
Two of Theodora’s Green psychotechs sit in front of the
interrogation cube’s transparent data wall illuminated with
neurological data from the prisoner inside.
“Theodora,” I call as we cross the room. “You beautiful
carnivorous ﬂower. I’d kiss you, but it would ﬂuster
Nakamura. You’re worth ten legions, you gem.” My
spymaster wears a long black citycloak. Her white hair is
coiled atop her delicate head like a nesting albino snake.
Eyes cold and lovely as rhodolite garnet sweep over us.
“Only two legions actually, but that was when I was
sixteen.” The smile of the shorter woman is slow and minor.

A musk barely perceptible to even my senses lingers in the
air. I feel a little nauseous. Hardly a coincidence.
“Do they know he’s missing?” I ask.
“He snuck away for his deprivations. We probably have
several hours before they know. But they may have taken
precautions.”
“And the leak?”
“Dripping.”
“Nakamura, what are you doing?” I call.
She’s crept closer to the interrogation cube. Theodora
steps in her path and puts a delicate hand on her
breastplate. “Easy, girl.” Holiday pushes her to the side in
her eagerness to draw even closer to the Duke of Hands,
stopping only when Theodora breaks smelling salts under
her nose. Holiday blinks out of her reverie and looks down
to see her safety is oﬀ on her riﬂe. She clicks it back on.
“Sorry. I…what was that?”
“Pheromonal defense mechanisms,” Theodora says.
“PDMs aren’t that strong.”
“His are.” Theodora smears the smelling salt under
Holiday’s nose. “Should be lucid now. Do tell us if you start
getting a little warm down between the thighs, dear.”
A ﬂush spreads across Holiday’s cheeks. “I’m fuckin’
ﬁne.”
Theodora turns back to me. “You were right for us to use
salts. He’s also trained in psychesonics. Even my Splinters
had to wear earcaps to ﬁlter.”
I sniﬀ the air. “Smells like roses and poppyseed oil.”
Theodora is impressed. “You can actually distinguish it?
My, my. Would I love to take your nose on a walk through
the forest.”
“Yes, well, sewers are interesting. How did Ephraim
manage against that man?” I ask. “Those pheromones

would knock Darrow on his ass.”
“Zoladone,” Holiday says. “He was jacked to the gills for
a decade.”
“Of course. Conclusion on our breed hypothesis?”
“Custom hybrid, Eunomian embryo and either Priapian
or Aenean sperm. Whichever it is, it made a Rose of a very
dangerous strain.” Theodora looks back at the cell with a
contempt so gracefully articulated with her lips and eyes
that it makes me feel as coordinated as a bowlegged colt.
“Rarer even than mine. I believe he came from the
Hysperia Gardens breeding tubes.”
“Hysperia.” Holiday’s eyes go sour.
“You’ve heard of it?” I ask.
She nods. “Trigg and I were sent there on a Dracones kill
detail once. We saw the death rooms. It was what made
Trigg pull the trigger to seek Ares.”
“I believe they were called pruning chambers,” Theodora
says.
“Atalantia was a patron,” I say, examining the man. Could
he serve her? Would he still? This whole charade doesn’t ﬁt
Atlas. But even absent hard evidence linking Atalantia, it’s
certainly eccentric enough for someone who learned her
trade in the silk viper pit that was Octavia’s court. I knew
Atalantia for a little over a year. She made even Daxo seem
tame. “Octavia often worried her erotophonophilia spoke of
greater character ﬂaws—not that I can imagine anything
worse than deriving sexual pleasure from executions. Aja
despised her for it.”
“And now the psycho has the Gold war machine.” Holiday
grunts. “Shame your brother’s pet crashed her ship into
Hysperia. Trigg and I had a date with the proprietors.”
This Duke of Hands will have seen the worst of my kind. I
feel no small amount of pity for that. But the two women
standing with me are proof anyone can write their own

destiny. I open my white box and head to the cube. “I’ll
conduct the extraction myself.”
“You’ll want the salts,” Theodora says, glancing warily at
the cylinders in the box.
“Please. This horse rides for only one man.”
—
An hour later, pressurized air hisses as the door seals me
inside again. The walls, ceiling, and ﬂoor are white, but
there are no corners and no perceivable curvature. It is as
if the slender man sits in a chair at a table suspended in
nothingness.
Even with his pink hair lank and a bruise swallowing his
left eye, the Duke of Hands is how I imagined Narcissus
would look, mythic vanity made supple ﬂesh and angular
bone, so physically attractive he could drown himself in his
own reﬂection and not pity his own death. Already his body
will be adjusting to me, intuiting my predilections,
beginning its assault on my sexual drive. But they didn’t
call my father a cold ﬁsh for nothing. Houses of the
Conquering, especially mine, learned long ago the dangers
an alluring Pink could pose to the young scions of their
line. In reply to this one’s pheromonal assault, my
neurological defense systems activate. Deep in my medulla
my chemoreceptor trigger zone detects the pheromones,
interprets them as emetic agents, and relays stimuli to the
integrative vomiting center, which nearly triggers emesis.
It feels rather like radiation poisoning. Familiar.
Thank you, Father.
Swallowing the nausea, I peek around the table at the
Duke’s pink feather loafers. “Ridachi?”
He snorts in amusement. “Quite.”
“Hummingbird?”

“Griﬀin.”
I wag a ﬁnger at him. “The Valkyrie would have your rib
cage.”
“Oh dear, a pity you’ve none about. Word streetwise is
that they’ve simply vanished. Like a carnival trick. That
must set you on edge…my Sovereign.”
Not quite. The words are true, verbatim to the ones he
spoke when he ﬁrst saw me an hour ago.
Incredible, the brain’s consistency.
I’ve planned this meeting for some time, and prayed it
would happen before Sevro found this chief prize. On the
day my son disappeared, the master thief had already
vanished into the city when my Lionguard arrived at his
Endymion highrise, leaving only his blood behind. It’d been
sprayed with an agent to destroy its DNA markers. Seeking
him has been like catching smoke.
“When I was a child…” I begin.
“Oh Jove, a story.”
I smile at the déjà vu. What a peculiar feeling this is.
Does he not notice the ache at the back of his skull?
“—my father took me to visit the gens Votum. He was
keen on impressing upon me the vagaries of gens Votum
diplomacy. But I was a young girl and easily bored. I looked
at Mercury and I did not see iron or political intrigue. I saw
a strange, violent little planet with a Master Maker who
carved desert mountains into wonders, and jungles so deep
and dark you’d think you’d lost the sun and ended up on
Pluto.
“I begged Father to let me see the jungles. Simply
begged. Till at last even he could not do anything but send
me oﬀ. It was a ridiculous procession. Votum botanists and
scientists accompanied me and Lionguard and my father’s
politico, Pliny, into the heart of the jungle. There were

many odd sights there, as you can imagine. But there was
one that arrested me. One that reminds me of you.
“It was a scene I witnessed at dusk not far from our
camp. I was watching a zebracore drink from the banks of a
river when suddenly the jungle moved and a bush hydra
struck from the treeline. It choked the zebracore to death
and then unhinged its jaw to swallow it whole. I’d never
seen anything like it. There it lay, perversely gorged and
supine. Right there, on the bank of the river. Couldn’t
believe my eyes. But it gets better. As it digested its meal, a
single sarissa ant discovered it. You know of them, of
course. We found them in your highrise. Soon there were
two ants. Then ten. Then a million ﬂoating like water across
the jungle. And, as the hydra lay glutted on the ground, too
full to escape, I watched them devour it till all that was left
was a skeleton around another skeleton.”
He’s been excreting pheromones at a phenomenal rate.
“Don’t you think we’d be better without all those eyes
watching us?” he purrs. His eyelashes ﬂutter. “I wither
under lights. Wouldn’t you like to turn oﬀ the cameras?” he
asks. “So much stress on those shoulders of yours.
Wouldn’t you like release?” His tongue wets his upper lip.
“I can do that. You’ll believe you’ve ascended into the
clouds of Jupiter.”
I lean forward, as if drawn to his magnetism, then
squeeze his nose and make a farting sound.
His eyes go rancid. “Cold bitch.”
“Waste of hair.”
He sneers because my insult was better, and leans back.
“They all say you’re the brightest star in all the heavens, a
face to make angels weep and a mind to make a shadow of
the sun, but you’re just withering meat like all the rest.
Aren’t you?” He sniﬀs. “I can smell the decay. Your tits
already stretch and sag from childbearing, your mind
murmurs of the madness that ate your psychotic brother

and wanders to the fate of your marooned husband and
your little boy, and slowly you begin to wonder if you’re not
a tragedy instead of a triumph.” He laughs so sweetly you’d
think he was massaging my feet. “I suppose those maladies
give you allowance to make such opera out of your
childhood.” He bats his eyes and leans forward, mouth
open seductively. “Honestly—”
“Do I look a hydra?” I ﬁnish for him. He pauses in
confusion as I steal the words right out of his mouth. I keep
going with what he’s going to say, because he said it just
forty minutes ago. Not that he remembers it. “My bones are
brittle as porcelain. My nerves tender and tight. Why, with
one swat of your hand, you could shatter this frail anatomy.
No. I am no hydra. I am the ant, and you are the fat snake
who has swallowed what you cannot digest. And we
surround you, devouring bite by bite by bite.”
He’s dumbstruck. Not understanding how I could
possibly predict his little soliloquy. “Perhaps,” I say in reply
to myself. “Perhaps you are right. Time will tell. But insects
have short life expectancy. So I guess time kills too. Tough
metaphor for you.”
He swallows, seeking conﬁdence, some semblance of
control. All my life, I’ve tamed myself to not frighten
others. Sometimes it is fun to let the lion out.
“Have we met before?” he asks.
I lean forward. “Wouldn’t you remember?”
He considers the question, his mind stumbling over the
gaps I made in his memory. He shakes his head. The tweaks
I made to the psychoSpike implanted in the back of his
skull have improved results drastically. Octavia was so
close to perfection with her Pandemonium Chair. The
device was stored in her Crescent Vault. It has the capacity
to shift through and edit memories. But while the chair is a
blunt-force instrument, my psychoSpikes are scalpels.

“You really look so thin on the holos,” the Duke of Hands
says, eyes tracing my legs, “but you must have me by ﬁfty
kilos for the chair to sag like that. The bone density is
startling. I would ask if it is hard to swim, but I suppose
everything is proportionate. I wonder…” His eyes settle on
my knuckles. “Could you shatter my skull with one punch?”
“Like a soft-boiled egg.”
“It must be…intoxicating. Godlike.” He admires it. He
craves it. He knows he’ll never have it. Like my brother
with Father’s love. I’d feel bad if I didn’t know the
dangerous pressure that puts on a naturally cruel soul.
“But of course you do not notice.” He licks his lips,
nervously, oﬀ his game. He’s gotten used to owning the
conversation. “What do you think would happen if I were
you and you were me? If I was given that warborn body of
yours, and you were given this frail vessel of mine? Do you
think you would have the courage to do as I have done? To
wait behind a door, no older than ﬁfteen, wondering who
your master has sold your body to?”
He’s said this before, but I let him say it again. No one
should steal these words from him. It is immoral.
“And then to see them enter, and look at you like a meal
without conscience or soul? Could you stomach it once?
Twice? Satiating them. A thousand times watching yourself
be devoured, feeling them throbbing inside of your body,
violating the only possession you were given in this world
until they shudder in ecstasy and at last withdraw and look
at you with contempt. Are you that strong?”
“No,” I continue his train of thought, now allowed to
steal the very words that he said from our earlier
conversation. For the speeches to be so similar, he must
have rehearsed this meeting many times. “How could you
ever sit where I sit now and face you down, never having
been the stronger party in a ﬁght? I daresay it would have
broken you. But it did not break me. If I were given your

body, your life, why, your hardest day would be a mean
meal, and I”—I touch my chest—“would be king of all
things.”
He’s given up confusion for horror. “Cat got your
tongue?” I say with a toothy smile. “Now is where I oﬀer
you a reward for the Queen. You spit in my face. You tell me
you need no trinkets, you’ve gained them yourself. You are
not my whore. What you have, you’ve taken. What you
want, you will take. You are a man, not a rat. And a man
must have a code. But it seems we are two apes dancing
around ﬁre. Shall we poke the blaze? You want to ask about
your little boy, don’t you?”
His unspoken words from my mouth incite a frenzy in
him. But I keep going, torturing him, making him tiny.
“He’s been raped and fed to dogs,” I sneer. “Piece by piece.
They started with the legs, and saved the eyes for last. Not
even a twitch? Iceheart would have ﬁt better. Don’t you
care about your son?”
Words have deserted him. He’s trapped in a nightmare.
“Of course I care, but you don’t have him,” I say.
“Someone far more dangerous, but far more predictable
does.” I glance at my datapad. Holiday has given the signal.
Finally. The novelty was wearing oﬀ. Fidelity is conﬁrmed. I
have what I want.
“Bitch…” he hisses. “How are you in my head? What is
this?”
“In part, this is me measuring the ﬁdelity of your brain
patterns and predictive behavior to help me develop an
evolving technology. But more to the point, this is me
killing time.”
His pretty eyes narrow. “For what?”
Finally, the lights go out. “The Goblin of Mars.”

***VirginiaThe Duke strains on his
handcuﬀs. I’ll never get used to seeing the fear Sevro
wakes in people. Deep down they know Darrow is operating
on a framework of logic. No one, not even me, believes that
Sevro is completely sane.
“How’s the saying go?” I ask the Duke. “That’s right.
‘The Reaper may go through you, but the Goblin stays for
seven courses.’ ”
“I’m a prisoner. I have rights. You can’t let him butcher
me. I don’t have the little bastards! I’m a prisoner of the
Republic. I have rights.”
“I’ll see if he agrees. Wait, please.”
I disappear out the door as the Duke shivers in terror.
With the power cut, the warehouse is dark but for the
lights around the small camp outside the interrogation
cube. Theodora and Holiday sit at the table sharing tea and
quietly debating whether the white sand beaches of South
Paciﬁca or coastal vineyards of Thessalonica are more
OU HAVE TO PROTECT ME.”

pleasant. I join them and kick my feet up. “Obviously South
Paciﬁca. Impossible to get the stench of the Valii-Rath out
of Thessalonica. Could you please pour me a cup,
Centurion?”
“Sugar?”
“No, thank you.”
“A little indulgence never hurt anyone,” Theodora says. I
raise an eyebrow toward the screaming Duke in his cube.
“Well, except for him.”
I sip the sugarless tea and scan the shadows, wondering
if he’s already there. “Sevro, stop wanking oﬀ in the
shadows and come down.” No response. “We have tea.”
A shadow parts from the darkness amongst the rafters
and lands in the center of the ﬂoor. The short, plump ﬁgure
wears light-absorbent tactical gear and a lupine helmet
with a snarled snout and feminine ears. It is severely
damaged and torn in several places. The helmet slithers
back into its catch to reveal a round face with ﬂushed
cheeks. Pebble’s smile is awkward.
I tip my cup. “ ’Lo, Mars.”
“ ’Lo, Minerva.”
“How is Luna treating you these days?”
“Garbage detail, you know. Better than dead horses, I
guess.”
“Is Sevro joining us for tea or just going to skulk up in
the rafters?”
“Boss?” she calls up. “Think it’d be rude at this point not
to—”
“I hate tea,” a synthesized voice growls from above. “It’s
just coﬀee with piss instead of coﬀee.”
“He says—”
“He’ll like this kind. I brewed it for him.”
“She said you’ll like this kind. She brewed it for you.”

“Ask her what kind of tea it is.”
“He wants to know what kind of tea it is.”
“Wolfsbane, obviously.”
“She says it’s wolfsbane tea.”
Silence. “That’s fucking hilarious.”
A second shadow parts from the ceiling and falls twenty
meters to land with a thump beside Pebble. Covered head
to toe in battered scarabSkin and weapons, my son’s
godfather stands to his full, unimpressive height. He
swings his multiRiﬂe around to his back, where it attaches
to its magnetic holster. Though his ﬁngers play with the hilt
of his father’s old razor. Never has trusted me fully.
He stops as he passes Theodora and ﬁxes his helmet’s
eyes on her citycloak. “Where’s your wand, Merlin?”
“Where’s your wife, savage?” She eyes the scalps
hanging from the hook on his utility belt, hardly impressed.
“Vile. Have you gone full Ascomanni, my dear?”
“Please. The petty pirates copied me. Like Rollo with that
goatee.” Sevro raises two ﬁngers twisted together in the
crux and slumps into the chair I kick out for him, though he
does take a diva’s care not to rumple the rancid wolfcloak
that hangs from his left shoulder. Holiday pours him a cup
from a second thermos.
“You look ridiculous,” I say. “Take oﬀ the helmet.”
“Slag oﬀ. This is custom Cyther armor.” The weird
wolfhead regards the cup with crimson duroglass eyes. “I
drink coﬀee.”
I squint at the armor. “I knew it. You can’t see color in
that thing.”
He pauses. Then the cracked snout and spiked ears
ripple backward into their catch to reveal a pinched, cruel
face, pitted by relics of childhood acne, and almost more
feral than the helmet itself. His head is shaved but for a
short warhawk with a zigzag running down the center of it.

He squints at the cup, sniﬀs, and ﬁnds that it is indeed
coﬀee, not tea.
“You think your tricks are so charming,” he says. He
picks up the cup, pretending he isn’t desperate for his
private stash of Jamaican Blue Mountain. “If I get even a
slight bit dizzy, you get a tranq in the face from Min-Min.”
Holiday snorts. “Like that ruster could hit the broad side
of a Telemanus’s ass.” In mockery, she holds up her teacup
by its handle. Half the teacup in her hand turns to powder
as a silent rail slug passes through it and into the wall
behind, striking it like a gong. Unimpressed, Holiday
measures the remaining half of the cup and holds up the
measurement to wherever Min-Min is as if the Red were a
sloppy shot. Guess it gets boring on campaign.
Sevro mutters under his breath and nods to Holiday.
“Holi.”
“Sir.”
He fails to ﬁnd a wolfcloak on her shoulder. “You look
lost.”
She actually looks ashamed. For not going with Darrow?
For sitting beside me instead of Sevro? I didn’t spend time
to think of that. Just because she’s doing what she thinks is
right doesn’t mean she likes it. Whatever closeness I feel to
Holiday must pale in comparison with the intimacy of the
pack. Ten years on four spheres. They’re her home, and
Sevro is the master of the house. No wonder a toga would
sound so horrible. I feel suddenly like a presumptuous
interloper.
“I was lost, Sevro. How was Venus?”
“Vacations, you know. Hopped around the islands, visited
some old friends, warmed ourselves by a ﬁre, then came
home to an empty house. Speakin’ of ﬁre. How’s the cooch
rash?”
“Better than your face.”

“Good, so you’ll be bringing your kid-stealing ratfuck
relation to me in no time. He’s got a special reservation.”
He pats his scalp hook. “Yeah, you can get back to me with
that answer, but I’m charging interest.” He sips his coﬀee
and glares at me. “So, ’Stang, you found the right bait to
make yourself a wolf trap. Clever you.”
“Well, you weren’t answering my calls.”
He barely shrugs.
“Didn’t even have the courtesy of telling me you were on
Luna. That’s hardly the behavior I expected from my son’s
godfather.”
“Was busy eating my way up the food chain.” He rolls his
head to crack his neck, uncomfortable with the stillness.
“You talk with the apex asshole?”
I nod. “Before he made landfall.”
“He woke the Storm Gods.”
“He saved his army,” I correct.
“So Mercurian lives don’t count?” he asks.
“More to me than to you I imagine,” I reply.
He shrugs. “Pebble always wanted to surf.” He glances
over his shoulder. “Didn’t you, Pebble?”
“That was Thistle, sir.”
“Who?”
Thistle was the Howler who betrayed them and joined my
brother’s Boneriders ten years before. That’s how Sevro is.
Betray him and you’re purged from existence.
“The civilian toll was likely catastrophic,” I say, “but go
on and make jokes.”
“Civilians.” He snorts. “You haven’t met many
Mercurians lately. Mosquitoes, all of ’em. If Darrow wants
to die, he couldn’t pick a better planet to take with him.
Those freaks actually like chains.” He yawns. “Surprised.

Thought if anyone could get him to come back for his boy,
it’d be you.”
“Oh, so we’re making him a monster so you feel better,” I
reply. “I said: Pax is in danger, race back and rescue him
because I’m not actually the most powerful person in the
Republic. I need my husband. Boo hoo. Weak and helpless
am I. Pax needs you.” I look at Pebble. “And Darrow replied,
‘Pax who?’ ”
Sevro just sits there.
“I didn’t ask him to come back, you little diva. I agree
with his decision. He’s where he should be.”
His eyes narrow. “You’re a mother, how could—”
“Careful, Sevro. I’ve never questioned your love for your
children. Do you really want to question mine?”
“He chose war over his boy. He’s gone Iron Gold on us.
Doesn’t care about anything else,” he drawls.
“And you want to pretend that was easy for him. I see.
Does that soothe your conscience? It was a long ride back
from Venus.” He looks away. “Don’t tell me you weren’t
eaten alive with guilt. Electra is one person. One. You chose
her over ten million who’d die for you. Ten million you
inspired. Who chanted your name. Who left their families
behind to follow you.” It’s risky, but he needs this slap in
the face. “What about your responsibilities? What about the
families of the Free Legions? What about your oath to this
Rep—”
“Fuck the Republic.”
Behind him, Pebble looks at the ﬂoor. I thought so.
“Selﬁsh jackass,” Holiday snaps at him.
“Traitorous twat.”
“Traitor? That’s rich after Wulfgar.”
“Accident.” He looks at me. “He got in our way.” He jerks
his head back at Holiday. “Seriously, shut the fuck up. You

don’t even have a kid. We were your family. We put you
back together after Trigg punched the ticket. And you
didn’t even have the balls to come with us to Venus. So
teeth together and look crusty beside your new master, cuz
we all know you’re wet bread inside.”
Theodora really doesn’t like that.
“Sevro, dear. You haven’t had your balls for ten years.
You gave them to Victra as a bridal dowry. And let’s not get
started on how many times I’ve seen you cry. Wet bread
indeed.”
Sevro looks calmly over to me. “They know I hit women,
right?”
“We’re trying to save Darrow’s life,” I say. “We are trying
to protect the future while you—”
“My girls are my future,” he snaps. “They got a lot of life
ahead of them. Only way they’ll be safe is if I teach the
Syndicate a lesson no one will ever forget. If you touch a
Barca, you cease to exist.”
“You are shortsighted, emotional, and in dereliction of
duty, Imperator.” I glare at Pebble, and at the shadows on
the ceiling. “That goes for all of you.” Pebble rocks from
foot to foot. “You want me to butter you up? Say I
understand? Give you a hug? Get over yourself, Sevro.”
“Talk. Talk. Talk.” Sevro spits on the table, getting my
hand. The coﬀee does little to hide the halitosis he gets in
the ﬁeld. Gross. “Slag it. My balls are growing a beard.” He
pulls Tickler, a knife as long as a child’s forearm, from his
boot and sets it down on the table. “You got a duke that
needs castrating. We got history, so I gave you a word.
Bored now.”
“You won’t be castrating anyone,” I say.
“Think you can stop me?” A grin slashes his face. “When
was the last time you got your hooves bloody in a tussle,
horsey? You’re gonna need more than those forty rear-

echelon Pixies on the roof and old Holi here to stop us.
Maybe you got big bitch Daxo hiding in the wings? A horde
of Lionguard waiting to pounce? You don’t want to go full
metal with me, not today.”
“Don’t insult your own intelligence by insulting mine,” I
reply. “If I wanted to put you in irons, I’d have activated a
containment ﬁeld and embedded gravity engines in the
ground that would subject you to an ungodly quantity of G’s
that would knock all of you idiots unconscious in your fancy
armor, Cyther-made or not. But I didn’t because this is a
family aﬀair, and I fear further damage to your already
questionable gray matter.”
He doesn’t trust me. “Winkle,” he says into his com.
“Sky? Still clear?” He grunts at the reply. “Keep an eye out.
Daddy’s going to carve a steak.” He sets his coﬀee down
and stands.
“You’re not the only one who lost a child,” I say. That
makes him pause. “Yet you play this charade, knowing the
pain I’m in. Knowing the fear I feel. I would never do this to
you.”
It’s one of the ﬁrst times I’ve seen pity in his eyes.
“Pax is safe. We got it under control….”
“You have half the bounty hunters in the Republic after
you,” I say. “The Wardens are one step behind. You and my
husband killed Wulfgar. He was their founder. Their war
hero. Accident or not, they want blood.” I put a hand on the
table, minding the spit. “Sevro. Brother. What about this
seems in control to you?”
That plays on his guilt and his insecurities. He doubts
Victra’s plan. His shoulders curve forward into the slump
he always wore as a young man. Selﬁshly, I want him to
choose to tell me. I need that choice from him so I don’t
resent him for the rest of my life.

“Sevro, where is my boy?” I ask one last time. His eyes
are starting to go glassy. “I know this isn’t your doing.
You’d be with your daughters, not carving up my city. But
you can choose to tell me.” He swallows, looking for some
escape. He wants to tell me, but he loves his wife more
than his conscience.
“I wasn’t here,” he mutters. “I had Darrow’s back till I
had to have Victra’s. You’re third in line. So don’t keep
asking. We’ll get Pax to you. That’s an oath. But I gotta
have my wife’s back.”
“So you won’t tell me.”
“Maybe I’d tell Mustang. But you ain’t her. You’re the
Sovereign now. I ﬁnally get that. V’s been telling me that
for years. You’re the Sovereign. Darrow’s the Reaper.
Everything else is second. Shit, I ain’t even supposed to be
talking to you.”
“Yet you are.”
He nods. “I’ll catch hell for it. She thinks you’re some
sort of mind reader. Or that I’m a dumbass that’ll spill the
beans. Prolly true.”
It hurts to see him like this. I want to be angry with him.
In some ways I am. But this isn’t his fault. Victra is to
blame. Julii have always had cantankerous genes. There is
no right or wrong for her, only hers and everyone else. I
was hers. It was a warm place to be. But over time I
alienated her as Virginia shrank and the Sovereign grew.
Perhaps it was inevitable, a faultline between the
consciences of our two clans that now has ripped open into
a gulf. It may never mend. But Sevro is Sevro. I have to
believe that. No matter what he does, he doesn’t go cold
like Victra and Darrow. This is breaking him apart. The
horrid violence, the lowered head, the refusal to
communicate—all
remnants
of
his
early
survival
mechanisms. Do we ever leave them behind?

I don’t need him to betray Victra. I can’t ask him for that.
But I can relieve this burden from him, and maybe this gulf
between us. Communication is our salvation.
“Sevro, I already know what she’s doing.”
“Naw.” His eyes harden. “She said you’d say that. Try to
pick me for intel.” He hefts his knife. “Now stay real still. I
don’t want to poke any of you. But this needs doin’.”
“He’s never seen the Queen’s face, Sevro,” I say.
“We’ll see about that.”
He expects Holiday to rise up and block his path as he
walks toward the cube, but she stays seated, as I ordered.
“I know why Victra went to Mars,” I call after Sevro. He
doesn’t stop. “She’s going to pay the ransom.”
He stops short of the interrogation cube’s door.
“Victra wouldn’t go to Mars unless our children were
there. And you wouldn’t dare attack the Syndicate if they
still had them. So they don’t.”
“Nice try. Ain’t fallin’ for it.”
“That leaves us with four possibilities. A third party hired
the Syndicate to steal the children and received them as
planned. A fourth party intervened and has them, and the
Syndicate’s original plan and backer are out of luck. Or
Ephraim sold the children to another buyer. Or he
absconded with the children and is ransoming them.”
Holiday emotes nothing.
Sevro turns his head a quarter of the way around.
“The last two are unlikely, judging by the fact we found
Ephraim’s right leg at the crash site. The ﬁrst is unlikely
because the Syndicate has put out a bounty on Ephraim,
and made no ransom demands to me. So that leaves the
second possibility. A fourth party has them.”
Sevro turns all the way around. I feel a sudden swelling
of excitement as I realize he won’t betray Victra, but

actually wants me to guess it right. He wants to come in
from the cold. He doesn’t want this division. But at the
same time, he’s afraid his wife is right. If I guess what
they’re doing, I’ll bring a stop to it.
“Assuming that is correct, and taking into account
Victra’s actions, they have asked for a ransom from Victra
instead of me. Wise. Victra is paying that ransom. It is a
ransom she thinks I would not pay, otherwise why cut me
out of the loop, considering my assets? She may be spiteful,
but children are sacred to her. She’d never hurt me that
way to teach me a lesson. She prefers knuckles to jaws.
“So, what do you two have that I don’t have, and who is it
valuable to? The list is appallingly small. Shipyards, ore
haulers, tradeships, and hubs. Taking into consideration
the curiously timed pilgrimage Seﬁ has taken to Earth—and
the overabundance of evidence supporting her existence
there—I know she is not on Earth. Nor is she with the
Obsidian ﬂeet heading opposite Mars’s orbit toward the
Belt under auspices of chasing Obsidian pirates. She is on
Mars or still within the Heart of Venus, which she
purchased through a shell company, awaiting Victra’s ships
and possible further aid in stealing Quicksilver’s helium
mines in Cimmeria.” I lean forward. “That’s aiding and
abetting an attack on Mars.”
Sevro has gone very still. His eyes ﬂick to Pebble.
“Look at me,” I say. “No one betrayed you. This is simply
what I do.”
The shame is apparent on his face, but he holds my gaze.
“Seﬁ said she would kill Electra and Pax if we didn’t get her
the ore ships.”
“You believe her?”
“Ragnar was my brother. But Seﬁ is…ice. If you
interfere…”

“I don’t intend to.” He cocks his head. “Could we stop
them getting the mines? Yes. But not without dire cost to
the Ecliptic Guard and the Martian Legions. We will need
all we have when Gold comes. Obsidian lost too many at
Mercury—a planet they can’t even live on. They are done
with the oﬀensive war, but if they have a stake on Mars, if
they have a homeland…they’ll defend it against the slavers.
“War has stretched us thin. We haven’t had the money to
rebuild Cimmeria. They will, from the helium they sell us.
Helium we already buy from Quicksilver. We haven’t the
resources to divert to eliminating the Red Hand. Seﬁ will,
with greater prejudice and focus than I could. Quicksilver
has convinced the Zenith Ring they own the Republic. He’s
in need of a valuable lesson. And what does it cost us? Land
and pride. Two things we can spare.
“The public will cry foul, but it will happen after the vote.
Soon Atalantia will come. The Silvers will fall in line. Seﬁ
will understand I allowed it when I withdraw all Republic
forces as soon as they begin their assault. The ﬁrst
ambassadors she receives will be Darrow’s brother, Kieran,
and Kavax’s wife, Niobe. They will have weight with her.
They will oﬀer a defensive military alliance with the
Republic and secure a helium contract. Then we turn our
eyes on Atalantia.”
“Victra said…we thought you would never let it happen.”
“Victra can be an idiot, and so can you. When can you
say the same for me?” I wait. “I am sick and tired of
everyone swimming around like drunk piranha because
they assume I am toothless. Whether or not we save
Darrow, atomic war is coming to the Republic. The time for
disunity is over.” Finally, I stand up and step toward him.
“You are in a demokracy, Barca. The people chose me as
Sovereign. They chose me to lead. Until my term or life
comes to an end, I am in command. If you want to abandon
the Republic we built to play with your kids, ﬁne. Slag oﬀ

and wait for mushroom clouds. But if you want to be a part
of it, get your head out of your ass, stop making my life
diﬀicult, and report for duty.”
Clown falls from the ceiling to land beside his wife. MinMin comes next. One by one, the Howlers separate from
the shadows to join them on the ﬂoor until twenty-ﬁve of
the hardest killers in a demokracy of eight billion stand
looking at Sevro. Their demands are clear. Sevro picks his
teeth with Tickler, tucks the blade away, and snaps to
attention. The Howlers stomp their heels together.
“Imperator Barca and Howler First Cohort reporting for
duty, ma’am.”
“Good to have you back, Imperator,” I say. “Your ﬁrst
order.” I motion him forward and wipe salt under his nose,
then place my datapad controller to the Duke’s
psychoSpike in his hands. “There is a terrorist in that
interrogation cube. When I tell you, activate this program.
Afterward, if he knows what color his eyes are without
looking in a mirror, shoot him in the head. Can you perform
this task, Imperator?”
Sevro raises an eyebrow at me. He knows I know he
wants to torture the Duke for the Queen’s location. He
wants to express his doubts. But if I don’t have his trust
after what just went down, I’ll never have it. I need to know
now.
“Yes, ma’am.”
He walks into the cube. I watch with the Howlers from
outside. Theodora turns on the sound. The Duke is snorting
in thin derision at Sevro.
“—think I’m afraid of you, mongrel? I’ve seen my Queen
make eunuchs with her kuon hounds. I’ve seen her kill a
room full of Endymion heavies with nothing but a hatchet.
I’ve seen her melt babies in acid. I’ll never tell you where
she is.”

Sevro squints at the neurolink and activates the program.
The image of a masked woman in a crown ﬁlls the room.
It ripples past, replaced by Gorgo, the Queen’s right hand.
A derelict tank-manufacturing plant blooms. More images
of Syndicate facilities whiz past. Sevro goes very still when
the face of an old friend appears in the images. Dancer. At
ﬁrst he must think it some mistake. Then more holograms
of the man appear in the Duke’s memory. Sevro looks at me
through the glass with a dead look in his eyes.
“Boyo, I think you already did tell us,” Sevro whispers.
The Duke stares in horror at his memories given
holographic form. He begins to scream at what he’s done,
not understanding, not knowing how we have secrets he
would have died to protect. Then the program moves to its
second phase. The psychoSpike on the back of his skull
glows. The Duke goes rigid. His eyes blank. The veins of his
neck stand out. In ﬁve seconds it is all over. He slumps in
the chair, breathing heavily. When he looks up, he is not the
same man. Gone is the agony. Gone are the inﬂections of
sexuality. He is purged of himself. Sevro is even taken
aback. Theodora smiles over at me.
“What color are your eyes?” Sevro asks. The man who
was the Duke of Hands stares at Sevro in confused terror.
“What color are your eyes, asshole?” The Duke touches his
eyes. For a moment, I think I miscalculated and I’ve wiped
his verbal functions. Then he stammers an answer.
“I…I don’t know.” He looks at Sevro’s eyes and gives the
logical answer. “Red?”
Sevro looks wide-eyed back at us through the cube.
“Whoa.” He turns back to the man who was the Duke. “Do
you know who I am? What’s my name?”
The man shakes his head, terriﬁed of the armored beast
in front of him. Who wouldn’t be?
“What did you do?” Pebble asks me.

“Octavia was a paranoid autarch. Fearing deception, she
employed teams of Violet Carvers and Orange Master
Makers to create biological esoterica and machines to
divine truth.
“There is one that piqued my interest upon accessing her
vault. It was the apogee of her devices, one called the
Pandemonium Chair. A battering ram into the mind, so to
speak. A crude one which I’ve been reﬁning as a way of
decompressing before bed.” I gesture to my white box to
show her the three thin spikes no longer than a Red’s
pinky. “I call them psychoSpikes. Far more elegant than the
chair. Far more useful. Whatever was the Duke of Hands—
memories, predilections, personality—is now erased. He is
tabula rasa.”
I hold up a small datachip. “That which was ﬂesh is now
silicon.”
“By Jove…” Pebble whispers. “Is it permanent?”
“We will see.”
The Howlers scoot closer to the cube. I tell Holiday to
prepare to depart. “Theodora, your new recruit is ready. I
advise a restart with the spike before uninstallation. No
one should have to look at Sevro the moment they’re born.”
“I think the Duke of Hands will make a ﬁne Splinter,” she
says with a smile. “With some tender love and care, he
might even become as patriotic as you, my Sovereign.”
“I am counting on it.”
Inside the cube, the man who was the Duke is shaking
like a leaf. Sevro has his helmet up now to terrify him.
Sevro circles and sees the small metal spike embedded at
the base of the man’s skull. He comes back around and
crouches in front of the overwhelmed Pink, cackling with
laughter.
“Boyo, sorry to be the one to tell you this. But I think you
just got skullfucked.”

He leaves the Duke there and stomps out of the
interrogation tube. “How long have you known about
Dancer?” he asks me.
“Less than an hour.”
“And what does my Sovereign propose to do with the
traitor?” he asks.
“Isn’t it obvious?” I reply. “Communicate.”

***EphraimI squander our ﬁrst days together on
basic language skills, which I oﬀ-load to Yellow linguists
and datadrops. I rely on a translation insert for my ear so I
can understand the coldbloods. They’re not babies. Most,
like Freihild, served a tour or two in the Free Legions. They
know more than they let on. But hundreds of years of Golds
culling the clever ones has taught them to hoard
information behind masks of stupidity.
They play dumb or angry when they don’t trust you.
And they don’t trust me a lick.
Thought my deeds would get me some street cred. False
hope. As Freihild is only too keen to impart: I violated the
sanctity of one of their sacred heroes by ﬁlching the
Reaper’s brood. Pax is literally a godchild to them, Electra
not far behind. No amount of Ozgard’s support will gain
their respect.
While the social element of my improvised training
regimen ﬂounders, the Obsidians are natural physical
HE SKUGGI AND

learners. Like Volga, they learn the tricks of my trade as
fast as children picking up a new sport. By week’s end,
they’re destabilizing laser grids, dissecting thermal
sensors, and picking locks. Some already knew laser grids
from the legions, but their methods are outdated and gruntslop. Still, you only have to show them something once.
Telling them something, on the other hand, is like trying to
push a whole handful of sand through an ear canal. You
lose right about ninety percent of it.
Over the next weeks, my primal terror of being crushed
underfoot diminishes and I settle into a comfortable
routine. On occasion, Pax stops in from his own lessons to
watch. He shakes his head one day when the thirtieth
Obsidian in a row is unable to tell a lie to one of Sun
Industries’ ﬁrst-generation lie detectors.
“Compared with modern Bloodhounds, this thing’s as
gullible as a nineteen-year-old farm boy with a concussion,”
I shout. “Most operatives rely on being inconspicuous. You
will never be inconspicuous. You are very conspicuous. So
you must be good liars. Next!”
As the next skuggi ambles up to try their hand, I slump
over to Pax.
“Go on, I know you want to correct me, halfbreed,” I say,
plopping down beside him on a low wall. His chin sports a
fresh bruise from Valdir’s martial lessons. No wonder he’s
not warming to them.
“Actually I was coming to say thank you,” he says.
“For what?”
“Seﬁ’s started letting me use the garage at night. There’s
an old two-seater gravBike they found in one of the old
depots. Looters didn’t think it worth stealing. Used to
belong to Karnus au Bellona. She’s letting me take a crack
at ﬁxing it up. Spent all last night taking oﬀ the kill-spikes.
Thought I had you to thank for it.”

“Don’t know what you’re talking about.”
I certainly do. After his brutal protest against Seﬁ’s
attempts at instruction and her command that I bring him
close, I thought it best to do a little recon to see what thorn
was under the little lord’s saddle. Seems Seﬁ’s personal
Oranges have noted spanners and hyper-crooks missing
from their stores. Considering the security in the household
complex, there were few possible culprits.
A single night’s stakeout provided the answer I
suspected. Who was it skulking in the garage in the dead of
night? Why, the Reaper’s own—he’d slipped away from
meditating in the tranquility gardens with Ozgard. When I
visited the garden, Ozgard was deep in a trance trying to
decipher the message in the veins of a leaf, and Pax was
there beside him, a small bulge under his armpit,
pretending to decipher the falling snow. I sneezed
“bullshit” and went on my merry way. I think I saw him
crack a smile. He likes me. Guess I’m a nice and cozy
reminder of Hyperion amongst all the deranged giants.
“Seﬁ says you told her I needed a workplace.”
“Can’t you see I’m working?”
“Are you?”
“Shut up. Not my fault they’re stubborn.” I gesture to his
chin. “Drop your guard?”
“Valdir might be a great warrior, but he is a bad teacher,”
he says. “He thinks that being louder makes him clearer.
Ozgard, on the other hand, makes his lessons into games.”
“Thought you didn’t like his lessons either. Aren’t they all
just purposeless distractions from the oh-so-necessary
war?”
He shrugs. “Prepubescent temper tantrum, though the
thesis is true.”
“So you haven’t stabbed anyone lately?”

“No. Electra got territorial.” He smiles. “Their complaints
may be valid, but I suspect their solution is ﬂawed, the
timing dreadful for the Republic, and deleterious to
existing internal class tensions regarding the matriarchal
hierarchy. But there’s little I can do but go along.” He
doesn’t mention his parents, though I know they are always
on his mind. “Electra is far more at home here than I am.”
“Well, you got more on your mind. And more of a mind
than old Hatchetface.” Neither of us mentions Mercury. But
that we’re both thinking it creates some awkward tension.
“So what’s the curriculum?”
“Actually, everything about Obsidians except violence.”
“So drinking, shagging, gambling, and eating.” He
watches me in amusement. “I miss anything?”
“Spakr,” he says. “In Nagal, quiet and wise are the same
word. So if I say ‘Mann ni spakr,’ it means that man is not
quiet, and thus stupid and loud.”
“Wait, you’re saying it’s Seﬁ the Wise?”
“To them.”
“I was about to say, it’s the worst moniker ever. All she
does is talk about her Alltribe.”
“She was silent for more than thirty years. You should try
it. You might learn something.”
“I liked you better when I was unconscious. Speaking of
which, you got it?”
He pulls the thin chain around his neck to show me my
engagement ring.
“Some asshole stuﬀ to do to a man in withdrawal. Pretty
fucked up, young man.”
“I’m not as young as I look. Uncle Sevro used the stuﬀ
for a spell. Zoladone, I mean.”
“Did he now?”

“The Rat War was hard on everyone. He’s not really a
Goblin. He’s actually very sweet.”
“I’ll be sure to tell him that if he ever catches up to me.”
Pax holds the ring, contemplating if it is time to give it
back.
“Hold on to it for me,” I say.
He tilts his head.
“Gotta be responsible to someone.”
He grins.
“Now get. I gotta earn some liberty for two ladies.” I
hesitate. “Glad you like the garage.”
“He makes his lessons into games!” he calls after me.
I mutter to myself as I walk back to the Obsidians just as
a skuggi with a cleft lip tries to convince the Bloodhound
that he lived on Pluto before he had pubic hair. The Green
supervisors titter to themselves.
“Get out of here. You’re worthless,” I shout at them. They
scurry away, making faces at one another in response to
some subliminal communication between their cranial
implants. “Anyone have a pack of Karachi cards?” The
skuggi do not answer. “Come on, I know you’re a bunch of
gambling degenerates, even if your spirits are pure as
snow. You.” I point at Freihild. Today she wears ghastly
jade earrings. “Gudkind.”
“I am Freihild,” she says, knowing I know her name.
“I am Gudkind,” the man with the cleft lip says. I think
it’s a woman, actually. Nope, a man. He’s got a beard. Wait,
do some Obsidian women have beards?
“Freihild, girl, you look like you got shit out an aurochs.”
She doesn’t. But the best thing that can be said about my
new appointment is the vast potential for cursing at skuggi
killers without fear of physical dismemberment. “Gimme
your cards.”

“No cards,” she replies, unable to take that devilish
gleam from her eye. I thought she’d make a ﬁne liar. Turns
out, she can’t turn it oﬀ. She just always looks smug as a
fox in a hen hutch.
“Liar. Fine. Whoever gives me cards ﬁrst gets a pass on
argot homework. And a hundred credits to gamble away
down in Olympia.”
Ten Obsidians rush forward. Freihild pulls out a pack too.
“You sly minx. I knew you were lying. Go to the Bleeding
Place and sit in the center for two thousand breaths.” I look
at the rest of them. “You do not lie to your tessarius, you
sorry sacks of oﬀal. Lying to your tessarius is akin to killing
a baby.” They do not react. Have they killed babies? “Akin
to lying to Seﬁ! Do you understand?” They glower. “Akin to
lying to Valdir.” There, that’s the right comparison. Freihild
has not moved. “You deaf, brave?”
Her eyes widen a millimeter. “Gold spirits live in
Bleeding Place.”
I grin. “So I hear.”
“I do not have shaman wards.”
“Move. Your. Ass. And no tiny Red breaths. Obsidian
breaths.”
She slouches away. I grab a pack from another Obsidian
and sit on the ﬂoor.
“Freihild.”
“I am Gudkind.” He points to the woman I just sent away.
“That was Freihild, which you know. For all know Freihild,
because she is deft in all things.”
“Right. Fetch me Xenophon. He’s in the war hall. Sorry,
varHal.” Gudkind breaks into a loping sprint. I smile to
myself and look around into the 198 frightening faces who
watch me as if I’m about to pull a snake out of my boot.
“Who’s the best at Karachi here?”

“Freihild, for she is deft in all things, for she learned at
the hip of Valdir the ways of the axe, and Screwface in the
ways of cards.”
So Freihild was Valdir’s student. Scandalous.
I stare at the brave, utterly annoyed. “Jove on high. Who
else?” I pick ﬁve from the ones with packs. “Everyone else,
fall in, bear witness to slaughter. Come on, pack in.”
Unable to crowd together for fear of touching, they align
themselves according to height. Stupid Golds and their
cultural departments. Must have had a riot thinking that
one up.
I shuﬄe the octagonal cards, throwing in a couple tricks
that made Rising coldies croon. I deal them out. “They had
a saying in the Free Leg: as easy as taking chit from a
coldie.” They’ve heard it before. “Now, I know you lot love
your cards. Problem is you’re not any good at it. The
Whites believe Karachi is their game because they invented
it to ﬁt their skill set. That’s why half of you are in for a
quarter kilo of gold at the gambling dens down in the city.
They count the cards in their heads, so they always know
their chances and they bet accordingly. All their dealers do
it. Simple statistical probability.”
Xenophon pushes through the Obsidians, looking
disheveled. His voice is ﬂat. “I was in the middle of an audit
on the assimilation camp—”
“You play Karachi, right, Xenophon?”
The logos’s eyes lose their glaze and do a little dance.
“It’s a little early, no?”
“Education has no schedule.”
“Then let yours begin.” The logos doﬀs a ﬁne midnight
coat, pools their midnight robes, and sits cross-legged. A
coin-ﬁle appears in their hand and they push the release,
spilling gold stamped with stars on the ﬂoor. “Deal me in. If
you dare.”

“So that’s how we get your blood moving. Comets are
low. No third draw. Five limit.” I deal the cards. Forty
minutes later, I own Xenophon’s coat and coins, seventeen
Obsidian warrior torcs, fourteen sets of earrings, and a
custom pulseFist carved to look like a dragon’s mouth.
“Can anyone tell me what just happened?” I ask them.
“Bald robbery,” Xenophon says in his customary drone.
The logos shivers, missing the jacket as wind comes oﬀ the
mountain. It’s the ﬁrst time I’ve noticed how thin Xenophon
is. Built almost like a salamander.
“I only won two hands of seven,” I say. “You won three.
Why do I have all the chit?”
“Because you cheated on the last hand. I imagine there is
a card-shooter on your wrist.” I pull back my sleeves to
reveal no card-shooter. “Then an ambideck.” The logos
takes a card in hand and bends it in half. No permutation of
pixels in the card surfaces.
“Xenophon played cards. You played Xenophon,” Freihild
says with an apologetic smile for the logos.
I look up at the pretty Obsidian. “The ghosts didn’t get
you, I see.”
I glance at Pax, who watches from a low wall. I saw him
follow Freihild. Boy just can’t stand staying out of other
people’s business. Or maybe he’s just gathering his own
intel. Mother rubbed oﬀ on him, I see.
“Freihild.”
“Ja?”
“You’re still a liar. But you’re right.” Someone starts to
say Freihild is deft in all things. “Yeah, yeah, shut up. You
nailed it. I played Xenophon. And now you deserve to have
your name remembered, Freihild, deft in some things.” She
looks loftily at the other skuggi. Gudkind gives her a
powerful nod, like she just killed a foe. That means a
compliment from me is worth something. So maybe I read

them wrong. Maybe they don’t distrust me down to my very
marrow after all.
“Pinks are the best players of Karachi in the worlds, not
Whites, not Coppers, not Reds,” I say. “The only people that
could hold a candle to them were those Gold snakes on the
Palatine. Lies were their ﬁrst musical instrument. But I’ve
seen even the Fury herself lose a hundred billion credits to
Quicksilver’s Rose on a lone star bluﬀ.”
They guﬀaw. “A cunning foe like Atalantia would not lose
to a Pink,” Gudkind says, oﬀended.
“She did,” Xenophon conﬁrms. “At the Aristotle Club.
January eleventh, 732 PCE. Were you robbing the place,
Mr. Horn?”
“Security, asshole. Not even I’d rob one of Atalantia’s
clubs.” I look back to Gudkind. “So the Fury lost. How, you
ask.”
Gudkind blinks. “I did not ask anything.”
“Rhetorical,” Freihild says.
“Ah.” He vaguely remembers the lesson.
“May I continue now?”
“Ja.” I wait for Gudkind to correct himself. “Yes.”
“Rhetorical again. Mind the sarcasm,” Freihild says. “It is
all he speaks.”
I continue. “Everything you need to know about Karachi
can be found in the faces of the other players, in the
breathing, the blinking, the talking, the silence, the
deviation from any pattern. Obviously don’t be a mule’s tit
and bet the bank on a minor star match, but if you got a
lock on your opponent, you’re on high street. Now you lot
have the most paralyzed faces this side of a Silver’s at a
slave auction, but your body language gives you away.” I
jab a ﬁnger out. “Hammerhead over there started heaving
like a thirty-year-old virgin soon as he got that major star
run. Skeleton here got squinty when she tried to bluﬀ with

a lone high comet. Even Xenophon has a tic. You lot read
the snow as kids, right?”
They nod.
“And the wind and beast droppings and whatever else
was on your pole. Reading people is no diﬀerent, but it is
everything. It will tell you if you can bribe a person,
intimidate, manipulate, bamboozle, befuddle, seduce.
Killing is easier sometimes, but rarely better in the line of
work you’ll be doing. Killing removes an obstacle. And what
are obstacles?”
“Potential assets,” Freihild leads half the skuggi in
answering.
“Exactly.” I beam. “That is how the Sons of Ares toppled
the greatest war machine that ever existed. That is how I
kidnapped the Reaper’s only son. Hieg?”
“Hieg,” they echo. Some, including Freihild, touch their
foreheads at the word Reaper.
“Now, the other Colors have practiced lying since birth.
Bullshit is the vernacular of cities. Gudkind over there
probably thinks whores actually like his Venusian earrings.”
They make huge guttural sounds. I ﬂinch, thinking they’re
about to kill me. No. It’s just two hundred Obsidian
assassins laughing their asses oﬀ. A few of them take a
knee and wipe their eyes. Right, no sexual mores here.
“Gudkind does love whores,” Freihild says. “He is deft in
many things, especially whores.”
Gudkind nods. “I do. I am. It is no lie. They are such
delight for my spirit.”
“Well, everyone’s got a hobby.” I absently pat his arm.
They freeze. I swallow and take my hand oﬀ him. Gudkind
laughs and pats my shoulder.
“Indeed. A hobby! My hobby is whores!”
I manage to press on. “By the time I’m through with you,
you’ll be such lie detectors you’ll never be able to go to

another brothel without having an existential crisis.” The
word doesn’t translate. “Without losing your…Pax! You still
here?”
“Andi,” he calls from the wall.
“Without losing your andi. Your spirit. Now…” I light a
match. The wind blows it out. Freihild kneels and cups her
hands to shelter the next match from the wind. Making
progress here. I light two burners and ﬂip her one, then
Gudkind too for equality and all that. “Now…I don’t wager
physical pain will make a tick’s prick of diﬀerence to you,
so we’ll put the pain where it counts. Today, we play
Karachi until you are all poor as Reds or learn to read
people just as well as snow. And to make sure it is real, you
will each make real bets, backed by your war hoard. I know
you’re all bloody millionaires. Or were before you found
Jewel Street down in the city. So break into groups of
seven, and get started.”
It is the fastest they’ve ever obeyed me. As they form into
groups, I sense movement on a balcony in the war-wing of
Griﬀinhold. Valdir stands ﬂanked by his braves watching
Freihild laughing as she forms up a group of skuggi for
cards. They all seem to be competing for the chance to play
against her. The look on Valdir’s face is not one of anger,
but something far more complicated.
Then his eyes ﬂick to me, and his face betrays him again.
He knows I saw how he looked at Freihild. Man might be
used to everyone thinking he’s a walking death god, but if
Seﬁ saw him looking at the young skuggi like that, I’m not
sure how long he’d be walking. Something about the Queen
tells me she isn’t exactly the sharing kind.
“Careful, Mr. Horn,” Xenophon says as Valdir goes back
inside. “If I have learned one thing, it is that Obsidians are
predators who think they are prey. Never pit them against
one another.”
“Didn’t dream of it.”

“Good.”
“Valdir seems to like you. Thought he was all about the
Old Ways. You ain’t exactly that.”
Xenophon shivers from the cold. Out of pity, I return the
midnight cloak. The logos nods in thanks. “I was a slave of
Atlas au Raa since my graduation from the Menta. It was
Valdir who found me in a…pitiable state. I have proven my
worth to Seﬁ many times over, including against Peerless.”
The word sounds like a curse on those thin lips. “I also
advocated she remain with Darrow.”
“So whose idea was all this nonsense?” Alltribe and
whatnot.
“The shaman’s.” Xenophon blinks very quickly, the same
tic I spotted when they disliked the cards in their hand. “He
also advocated for hiring you, against my advice. But I
serve the Queen. As do you. And when her mind is made
up, the only way is forward. Thank you for the cards. I look
forward to analyzing the data.” The White bows. “Until our
next game.”
What begins as an awkward, contrived hilarity soon
becomes an actual lesson. As the Obsidians play, they act,
guﬀaw, boast, and lie, not well, but by the end of the day of
my poking and prodding, ﬁve or six could beat one or two
lowlifes I knew on Luna. I partake in several games, and
even let Freihild beat me on a hand so deep she wins back
all I took during my demonstration. After that, going on
2200, I call it a day, and the braves tilt their chins up to me
in respect as they pass.
“It is called skillgift,” Freihild drawls to me. She’s the
last in the courtyard besides Pax. “Much was hidden from
us by the Golds. Many of my people have had their war
treasure lost to Reds and Grays. It is a dishonor to us. You
give us a chance to reclaim honor with this skillgift. This
pleases my brothers and sisters. And me. Even Screwface
would lose to you in cards, I believe.”

“It’s just a tool,” I say. “Won’t be protecting the Alltribe
with a game of cards.”
“I know.” She lingers for a moment, appraising me. “My
brothers and sisters do not trust you.”
“Valdir seems to share that opinion.”
She watches me, trying to understand what I mean. “I
would be careful speaking of Valdir, even in respect. He is
Big Brother. Our protector and pride. If he doubts you, it is
because he senses weakness. He is protective of our
Queen, as am I.” She sticks a thumb in her chest. “My tribe
was destroyed when Seﬁ joined the Rising. I had no people.
Then Seﬁ gave me vjr again. Purpose. She gave us all
purpose. You will not betray her.”
“Is that a threat or a prophecy?”
“I do not believe in prophecy.” She smiles. “I know it is
Old Way. Spirits in Bleeding Place?” She makes a face.
“Superstition enslaved my people. I pretend because I
must. And because my Queen needs my faith. My tribe
needs my faith. Tomorrow we will learn better. The next
day, better still. We have much more to do for tribe.”
Pax watches Freihild disappear inside the barracks and
comes over to me. “She’s sleeping with Valdir,” he says. I
squint at him. He taps his ears. “Their hearts beat faster
when they’re in the same room.” He taps his nose. “And she
has his scent today.”
I light a burner. “Figured.”
“Do you think Seﬁ has?” he asks.
“Not our war, little man. Where’s the she-devil?”
“Probably playing with axes.”
He looks lonely. I tousle his hair, surprising him. I do it
harder till he swats at me. “You really are a good egg,
aren’t you?”
He straightens his hair. “Why’d you say that?”

“General comportment. And you haven’t asked me to
break you out of here.”
“Could you?”
His bodyguard of six Valkyrie watches us from a portico.
The biggest, Braga, spits toward me. “Rule number one,
kid: always have insurance. You think I got you the garage
so you could play with bikes?” He perks up. “What do you
say we get wild drunk and I show you the schematics for a
certain harness we’ll be needing if things start to go
south…You can even tell me some crazy stories about your
old man if we have time.”
He’s wary of me. “I have work to do in the garage.
Speeder’s got a fuel cell leak.”
“Then why’d you hang around here all day? Come on…”
He tilts his head. “I suppose I could multitask if you can
picnic.”
I grin. “Sounds like a plan, little man.”

***VirginiaApachebel sings mournfully out the window as I sit on

the edge of my son’s bed in darkness. It smells like him:
movingachine oil and pine nettles. His gizmos form a pile on a
dark workbench at the far window, next to a shelf crammed
with souvenirs my husband brought from his campaigns:
hydra eggshells from Africa, sunpetals from Mercury, coral
growth from the Thermic Sea. But no totems of war, as if
my husband wanted to pretend he’d gone to explore
instead of kill. Pax’s clothes still hang in the closet. His
shoes line the wall, laces still tied, the backs squished
down.
One day he’ll wear them again, but hopefully never learn
to wear them properly.
Bring my son back to me, and I’ll leave Luna, I pray. But
who hears a prayer to no one? Not Victra. She believes only
in the power of herself. I hope it is enough. It must be
enough.

Out the gabled window, water laps against the stone
stairs that lead down to the lake. Beyond the shadowed
trees, the estate’s Lionguard detail patrol, here only to
protect Deanna, Darrow’s mother. She hates Luna, but
lingers here as if knowing Darrow will need her when he
comes back. I turn over an enigmatic device I ﬁnd under
Pax’s pillow. Something he built from the parts of six
others. He had a meeting scheduled with Quicksilver to try
to market it for his consumer products division. Was it for
this? I activate its trigger and it emits a soft hum. I angle
the concave projector toward myself and dip into a stream
of opera. I tilt it away and the stream disappears. Elegant.
“He built that for you.” I look up and see Deanna at the
door. “He thought you could have your guards use it on you
in all those meetings of yours.”
“Always thinking of others.” I set the device down on the
bedside table. “It’s a ﬂy in amber,” I say. “The rooms that
remain. When your husband died, what did you do with his
possessions?”
She leans against the doorframe. It tires her to stand too
much these days. Barely over ﬁfty, she’s had a hard life.
“Used what we could. Bartered the rest for rations. Darrow
liked to eat.” She searches my face. “I’ve spent enough
time in the past, love. The dead need no tears. They don’t
rest easier for our vengeance, or our guilt.” She shrugs.
“They’d want us to live. And life’s about the now and the
future, eh? Dale gave me three wee ones to remember him
by. I’m lucky at that. And they gave me more wee ones to
love. And they’re all still breathin’, far as I know, so don’t
start wallowin’ now. We got our family to save, hear?”
“I think you might be the only person alive who still
scolds me,” I say.
“That’s because I’m the only one you still need to
impress,” she says with a grin. “Now oﬀ your ass, lass, the
man’s just landin’ and he’s gonna be mad as a piter at me.”

—
Laughter comes from outside the house. The front door
opens with a creak. An engine powers down. Shuﬄing
footsteps come my way. Dancer limps with Deanna around
the kitchen corner. His smile dies as soon as he sees me.
“Well, ain’t this the dirtiest of traps,” Dancer says. “Since
when did you stoop to politics, Deanna?” He turns to leave,
but Deanna blocks him.
“Don’t be a bloodydamn idiot. Either of you. You’ve been
like two bickering hands. It’s embarrassing. Now sit. Sit,”
she snaps. Grumbling, Dancer takes a seat across from me.
Deanna shuﬄes to the stove and ladles out three bowls of
beef stew. “I slaved over this for hours. By the time you’re
done eating, you will have come to an agreement. Or I’ll be
back here to paddle the shit out of your ears. Hear? Now
I’ve got pants to patch. Can’t have Pax coming back to
holes in his knees as well as his family.”
When Dancer found out from the media that Pax had
gone with Victra on vacation to Mars, he was not pleased at
missing a chance to say farewell to my son. He was as
much a grandfather to the boy as Kavax was. A cruel ruse,
but necessary to dispel his curiosity at Pax’s sudden
disappearance. We linger in awkward silence. I’ve always
felt very much a slaver in the old Red’s eyes. Guilty for my
height, my health, and suddenly feeling foolish for the
expense of my clothes.
Dressed in a scuﬀed brown jacket, leather boots, and
drab gray pants, the resilient man makes no airs. In fact, he
more resembles a Martian agriculturalist than the terrorist
captain who became a senator who became a Tribune. He
sits down to shovel stew in his mouth to get it over with. I
join him. He pauses. “That third bowl isn’t for Deanna, is
it?” He looks around warily, focusing on the open window

and the dark gardens outside. Pachelbel twitter in the
trees.
“You’re like a desiccated turd, old man.” Dancer wheels
about as Sevro parts from the shadows near the pantry.
“Must be hard holding back a ﬂeet all by your lonesome.”
“Sevro. You are one stupid bastard.”
“Says the pot to the kettle.” Sevro sits on the counter,
one leg dangling oﬀ.
Dancer glances to the hallway that leads to the front
atrium. “I brought a cohort of Wardens. If they saw you
here, at the scene of the crime…”
“Nah.” Sevro draws Tickler from his boot and starts
cutting his nails. “Those blue capes hate getting dirty
almost as much as the Pixies wearing them.”
“They’re burning down the city chasing after you.”
“Instead of chasing the Syndicate,” Sevro replies. “Well
done, them.”
“In case you’ve forgotten, Wulfgar founded them. Just as
you did the Howlers. This time they’ll go for the kill.”
“Then don’t invite them in,” I say, annoyed. “Sevro will
behave.”
“Virginia, now is not the time for the Sovereign to be
sharing stew with fugitives. No matter who they are. Or
how untouchable she thinks she is.”
“A fugitive leads our best army,” I remind him.
“Lass, don’t false-equivocate. Mercury ain’t Luna. This is
supposed to be the heart of law and order. At current tally,
that human right there is wanted for sixty-eight counts of
homicide and a hundred more capital oﬀenses, half of
which are against the state.” Sevro just stares at him. “I
will not reduce my oﬀice to meeting with secret cabals.
That is beneath us now. We are not the Sons of Ares. We
are legitimate. I will act that way, even if you do not….”

He heads for the door, wanting so hard to be legitimate.
“Pax and Electra didn’t go with Victra to Mars. They
were kidnapped by the Syndicate,” I say. He freezes.
“That’s why Sevro has been on Luna. That’s why he’s in
this room, amongst other reasons.” Dancer blinks,
processing, then exhales and slumps back into his seat in
pain. I glance at Sevro. He watches Dancer without even a
hint of aﬀection.
“When?” Dancer asks.
“After Quicksilver’s birthday.”
“Sadly, I know the date.” His lips make a tight line
beneath his beard. “That explains a few…irregularities. So
you and Darrow would have found out after Venus…” Sevro
just watches, so I nod. “And he still went to Mercury.”
“Apex asshole, right?” Sevro chimes.
“Please stop,” I say.
Dancer doesn’t let it go either. “Going back to his men is
one of the only good and true things he’s done in the last
year, Sevro. Which is more than I can say for you.” Dancer
glares and looks down the hall to the sitting room. His eyes
linger on the hearth where Deanna knits. It broke my heart,
but not my expectations, that some Reds saw my boy as a
perversion. Dancer never did, no matter what he thinks of
me. He would sit with Pax on his knee by the ﬁre, smoking
his pipe as my boy slept. Did it right up to the age where
he’d be the one to fall asleep, and Pax would put the pipe
out for him, and tuck a blanket under his grizzled chin.
Dancer is thinking of the passage of time. How many years
ago that was, and wondering where they all went. I know
because the same thought monopolizes so many of my own
hours.
“So. Tell me. How badly are you compromised?” he asks.
“I’m not the one who is compromised,” I say. He frowns
as I pull the datadrop from my pocket. “I’ve long suspected

that the Syndicate Queen was working for or in conjunction
with another party—possibly one within our government.
Thanks to Theodora, and a new method of interrogation,
I’ve uncovered evidence.”
“You know who she is?” he asks warily.
“No. Unfortunately, she doesn’t even trust her Dukes
with that information. But…there have been revelations.”
“Show him,” Sevro says.
I tell the datadrop to play. Sevro scoots forward so he’s
within the three-dimensional perimeter of the holo.
Memories are imperfect. They bleed into each other. We
skitter through fragments of his life. The Duke is at the
beach one moment, bending to pick something up. Then he
is riding in a shuttle, speaking to his Queen; her face is
obscured with a mask that writhes with what looks like
locusts. It was too much to hope for a perfect look at her
face, but I’ll get one soon enough. We have her location.
But ﬁrst we will make sure our own house is in order.
Finally, a hotel suite expands around us, faded where the
Duke of Hands’ peripheral vision ends. The ceiling is the
clearest, carved with cupids and forest creatures. Candles
ﬂoat, beneath the ceiling, dripping down wax. Heavy
breathing comes from the memory. The sound of sheets
clenched as the breath quickens to agonizing climax. Then
a perspective distortion that makes the cupids grow larger
than the closer candles. Spasmodic psychedelic light
pixelates the cupids above, dissolving their bodies. They
drift for what must be a minute, before racing back
together. Focus pulses out, then in. Breath eases out, and a
man’s head rises upward, laying kisses on the Duke’s chest
until Dancer’s face ﬁlls the memory as he closes his eyes to
kiss the Duke on the mouth.
“It seems reveries are imperfect,” I say. “Auditory recall
is extremely ﬂawed. So are actions. They reﬂect latent guilt
and sometimes alter to seem more heroic. Faces, on the

other hand, are almost never forgotten. The colors are
often diﬀerent depending upon the time extract, the mood
more magnetic or colder. A brain is not a hardrive. The
spaces between—that jump you noticed—are…Well, I guess
no one has ever called them anything before. Let’s name
them ﬁssures. The ﬁssures are the time between the
memories we retain. I’ve not had long to make a
reconnaissance. Some span minutes, some weeks. Most
reveries are laced with ﬁssures. I only found this one
because it was entirely intact. He cherished this memory, it
seems. Unfortunately, a hologram is a poor means of
communicating the memory; prime ﬁdelity occurs from
sympathetic shadowing.” I tap my head. “Literally
experiencing it. I assure you, it is quite strange.”
“How?” Dancer asks, his face ﬂushed a deep crimson.
His outsized miner hands are squeezing the edge of the
table. The wood is starting to splinter as he stares at the
reverie.
“I have technology that maybe one, probably two others
are familiar with, though not to my degree of
sophistication, I don’t think. But they’re on Mercury.”
“I meant how is that any of your bloodydamn business,”
he growls, looking at me like he’s about to lunge forward
and rip out my jugular. Sevro slips closer to my side, as
surprised as I am by his venomous reaction. “You think you
can blackmail me with this for my vote? Ruin me? Drag me
in front of the branders like some poetic horror? I don’t
care if my people spit on me. If they say I should be gelded.
If you rob away the only thing that matters to me. Slag
you.”
Even Sevro is rocked on his heels by the anger in
Dancer’s eyes.
I made a mistake.
The moment the video started to play, Dancer thought
this was a shakedown. He’s kept this secret his entire life,

because the only people left in mankind to look at
homosexuality as an aberration just happen to be his own.
While the one that embraces ﬂuidity is the one he’s warred
against for most of his life. The one that sculpted his
culture as they saw ﬁt.
Mine.
He thought I was threatening to expose his inner life.
Knowing he thought me that cruel is a jarring blow.
Sevro is there to pick up the slack. “You really ain’t got a
clue,” he mutters. “It ain’t about that, boyo.”
Dancer looks ready to kill. “Then. What. Is. It. About?”
“Just that the man you were…you know…playing hide the
viper with is third in the line to the throne of the Syndicate.
That’s all, I swear.”
Dancer goes sheet white. Anger vaporized in a snap of
the ﬁngers, replaced by sheer baﬄement. His mouth opens
and closes. “What?”
“The Syndicate…black coats, prostitution, child slavery,
narcotics, hired murder, kidnapping…you know the lot.
Sort of the worst people on the moon.”
“That…” He looks at the datadrop. “…was the Duke of
Hands?” He sits motionless. “Shit.” He rocks his head back.
“Shiiiiiit.”
Sevro and I exchange a glance.
Dancer eases out a breath. “You two thought I knew. That
I was his accomplice?”
“She didn’t,” Sevro says. “I did. Sorry.” He backs away to
the counter as if distance will erase the memory of Dancer
wanting to rip his throat out. Forget malice or anger. All
should beware the wrath of an oﬀended soul. “She insisted
we talk before…you know. So…”
“His name is Faustus. Or I thought it was. Found me in
the park. You know I can’t stand all these buildings. He told
me he was a painter. Face like that, you’d believe anything.

But I know the games. I don’t keep intel at my home. Or
talk in my sleep, even for someone like that.” He nods to
me. “Your father’s agents were cruel teachers. We learned
to be careful.”
“Got sloppy, though, eh?” Sevro says. “He that good in
the sack?”
Dancer doesn’t speak for a moment. “Guess I thought I
deserved something good. Was oﬀ and on for a couple
months. I told him I wanted it to stay on. Then he
disappeared.” He plays with his knuckles. “Do you think I
put Pax in jeopardy?”
“No,” I say. “You didn’t have our ﬂight plan. He might not
have wanted anything from you,” I say. “It might just have
been the association. I believe you were the fall man. Steal
the children, release this to me. Or to the public.”
“Bet your DNA is all over that little love crib,” Sevro
says. Dancer looks at him in irritation. “Hey, you did the
deed. Syndicate probably took video too. All the good
angles.” We both look at him. “He literally fucked a
terrorist. I can say what I want.”
“What does the Syndicate want with the children?”
Dancer asks.
“They don’t have them.” I tell him all I know, including
how the Obsidian must have reached the downed shuttle
before my men did. And Seﬁ’s intended plan. When I have
ﬁnished, he leans back and rubs his jaw. In the wake of the
revelation, he’s demure.
“Gods, letting them take the mines is a risk. What if they
use blunt force?” he asks. “A storm on Mercury is one thing
but warbands of Obsidian on Mars…”
“Seﬁ has seen what insurrections do to militaries. She
won’t alienate the populace.”
“I hope not…but you’re right about one thing. We need
the Obsidian. You want me to convince the Reds of

Cimmeria to get on with Seﬁ, I take it?”
“Not for free,” I say. “I need you to convince the Reds to
do it in return for Seﬁ giving them the share of the mine
proﬁts Quicksilver stole. It will be a partnership.”
“And if I vote to let the Reaper die on Mercury, I won’t be
able to convince them of anything. The Reds of Mars will
think I’ve become a Lunese.”
“Correct.”
“Question,” Sevro says. “If Dancer’s the Red herring then
who do you think the Queen’s partner is? Who are they
trying to protect?”
It could only be one man.
“If Dancer was set up to fall, if Pax was meant to get
leverage over me…” I say. “Cui bono? The most immediate
eﬀect is a power vacuum in the Forum. So it must be a
senator. With my son out for ransom, I’d be compromised.
So the Tribunes would vote for a new—”
“Daxo,” Sevro sneers.
“Oh, shut up,” I say.
He’s put oﬀ. “If anyone is an insidious mastermind, it is
that obelisk of a human. Octavia did want him alive.”
“She’s right,” Dancer says. “Wouldn’t be Daxo. Wouldn’t
be me if they released this. It’d be compromise. They’d
need two-thirds vote. Vox would block Daxo. Optimates
would block any Vox. It’d have to be someone both parties
would agree on. Someone the public would accept.
Someone…incorruptible.”
“That gasbag?” Sevro says. “No way he’s a criminal
mastermind.”
“Publius is allied with the Queen,” I say.
I feel the certainty forming in me. Ten years ago Publius
was no one. Just a public defender for lowColors. How did
he rise so high so fast with no benefactors? No campaign

donors? Is it so impossible to believe that someone came to
him years ago and oﬀered him the world if he would only
answer the call when it came? Is it so impossible I could
have been fooled by someone so close? No. I make mistakes
all the time. And thinking of how he left Daxo’s oﬀice, with
that comment on the decor, I realize it wasn’t an oﬀhand
remark from the mouth of babe. It was a taunt.
All his years of crafting that incorruptible reputation
suddenly make sense. He’s not going to vote with me. It’s a
trap. With the Silvers I lost, and no Coppers or followers of
Publius, no ﬂeet will sail.
“The vote is tomorrow,” I say. “Even if we had evidence
on him, it wouldn’t matter. He’s too popular. We take steps
to gather evidence, isolate him. And, if he is indeed a
collaborator with the Queen, with Atalantia”—Dancer’s
aspect darkens at that—“we will bring him down with all
the proper and legal might of Moonhall. But for now, we
must address the issue. The enemies of our Republic expect
us to be divided. They found the faultlines between us, and
they jammed a wedge in. We must stand together. Dancer, I
need your trust, and I need your votes.”
“You think Atalantia did this through the Queen?” he
asks.
“Her or Atlas must have coordinated with her in some
way. I don’t know which, but it is a Gold hand holding the
strings. They seek to turn us on one another.”
Dancer looks at the datadrop. Before I can react, Sevro
smashes it to dust. “Far as we’re concerned, boyo.”
Dancer stares down at the dust of the reverie. “I believed
I was dirt once,” he says slowly. “For these.” He tilts up his
sigils. “And this.” He traces shapes through the dust and
his voice loses the learned words and the sharpened
consonants as he sinks back into the mines. “Was my own
clan that did me wrong.” His heavy eyes ﬂick up. “Didn’t

know that, did ya? They burnt oﬀ me what makes a man a
man. Ares found me bleeding to death in a tunnel.
“He knew what they’d done. He ﬁxed me, in more ways
than one. But he did one better. He taught me it was Gold
that broke us. Taught me Red could matter. Taught me I
mattered. Ten years, I never saw his face.” He looks up at
Sevro. “When he took that helmet oﬀ to you, to me, and I
saw Gold, I wept worse than when they gelded me. First
man who said I wasn’t broken was the master. The slaver.
“Hit me good. Right here.” He thumps his chest with a
ﬂat hand. “And I saw it hit him. I wasn’t his best. I wasn’t
his favorite. But I was the only one who believed like he
did. Was me that chose Darrow. Was me that had the keys
to Tinos.” He swallows. “Boy…that father of yours never
judged me ’cept by what I’d done. Began to understand I
owed him the same.
“Made a choice, then. I’d stand before him. Him that
freed me. Him that made me diﬀerent, made me a force.
And I’d tell him what he told me long before: a man is his
actions, not his blood.” He looks back at the remains of the
datadrop in sorrow that even now he still hides his truth.
“The Jackal came before I got that chance. That is the
greatest regret of my life. Your pa was my hero then and he
is my hero now. I knew I’d never see his like again. I was
wrong.”
Dancer blows the reverie dust from the table and stands
to look up at me. Ares dreamed of individual freedom,
because of his son and his Red wife. Darrow dreamed of a
world without monsters. Dancer’s private dream was more
delicate. He believed it was Gold who made his people
wicked. And without Gold, they could be good. Bit by bit,
he’s seen reality wither that dream on the vine. But now
that he knows it was still a Golden hand poisoning the soil,
making him indict the very object of his faith, doubt the

mission of his life, inside that stalwart chest awakens his
holy wrath.
There is the warrior.
“Got a lot of hate in me,” he says in a low growl. “Got a
lot of fear that you won’t ever understand. But none of it’s
for you, Virginia. We’ll disagree again soon, I’m damn sure
of that. But if our enemies think we’ll devour each other…
Nah. Today my Sovereign is the Lionheart, and tomorrow
she will have my votes. We will rescue the Free Legions.”
“ ’Bout bloodydamn time,” Sevro says.

***VirginiaTo see them from above: the roving herds of beasts, the

rivers carving stone, the rituals of man in all their varied
panoply, to see the clouds roil over the patchwork latifundia
of Asian plains, to see the mines of our home, is to
remember the patterns of the world, and the majesty and
complication and impermeable obscurity of distant lands. It
is to remember how few people you know. How many do
not know you. How many will soon forget you. How many
praise you today to oﬀer contempt tomorrow. Permanence
of fame, power, dominion of the individual, are illusions. All
that will be measured, all that will last, is your mastery of
yourself.
This is what my father told me. It was his warning about
power, though he sought it to his end. I’ve never
understood how a man so wise could be so undone by
himself. Perhaps I never will, and that is what has always
frightened me. Not that I cannot control my own fate—that
is impossible—but that I cannot control myself.

Now I stand without him, wondering if he should be my
compass when he could not even follow his own needle—
and the roar of the distant ocean ﬁlls my ears. I watch the
Earth turn from the Ocular Sphere, a glass chamber
suspended atop the highest pinnacle of the Citadel of Light.
Created by the Master Maker Glirastes, like too many other
wonders, it ﬂoats like a teardrop escaping upward to
heaven from the tip of a bronzed sword. Octavia would
often come here for her meditation and solitude. Of course,
as an outsider I could not insinuate myself upon her here
when she would wrap herself in that psycho-mystic credo
she taught lonely Lysander—the Mind’s Eye. I would wait
for her, thumbing through intelligence reports in the library
below, or discoursing with Moira, or entertaining Atalantia
with the newest gossip I’d plucked for her ravenous
appetite.
But Octavia is gone, and Lysander swallowed by the
great expanse with Cassius. Though my opinions of Cassius
are weighted and complex, and not understood completely
even by myself, I hope they found happiness out there.
There was so little of it for them here.
The Sphere is mine now, as are so many of Octavia’s
trophies. It is a hollow oddity, that possession. While she
lived, these talismans and icons of hers—her Dawn Scepter,
Silene Manor, the Sphere, the Pandemonium Chair, the
Sovereigncy itself—were wrapped in mystery and portent.
As if they held some great secret of life that I was too
young, too foolish, to possess. I craved them so much—
maybe as much as my father craved for whatever his desire
actually was. But now, in possessing them, I see them for
what they are; and they all feel lesser for that possession,
as does indeed the world itself. The scepter is a hunk of
iron. Silene Manor a house. The Sphere a clever device.
The Chair a dangerous tool. Cities are measured by cold

statistics of consumption and output. Planets by their
loyalty and strategic importance.
All that matters is my son, my husband, and those I love
and know, and who know me back.
Of all the people that lived in these last seven hundred
years, none know the minds of the gens Lune as I do now.
None know the weight, the fear, the anger, the
ambivalence, the pride, the love, the disgust, the
disappointment, the hope, and the utter frustration of
ruling over billions of souls.
Octavia lost her husband and daughter. If I lost my son
and husband, could I go on?
Or would I grow to be the villain of someone else’s story?
Waving my hand at the curved glass wall of the Sphere, I
watch the Earth grow until it consumes the entire pane. I
ﬂy amongst the peaks of mountains, along the cool ﬁngers
of Eurasian rivers running toward the sea. I rotate my hand
and ﬁnd the great mechanical prison, Deepgrave, trundling
along beneath the surf. And with a ﬂick of a ﬁnger, my sight
races to Mercury. Much is white and black, to signify old
images. Many telescopes have been destroyed in the war.
But through the swirling clouds of the hypercane, I glimpse
a Society bastion—a mobile operations command city—
upon the desert sands. A jamField covers Heliopolis, where
my husband licks his wounds. What hell does he suﬀer?
What greater hell does he prepare for his enemies?
It is torture to see and not to know.
But worse still to know and not be able to aﬀect.
I hope he knows we have not abandoned him.
That I still love his heart, despite its weight and anger
and complications.
I love him so much I cannot bear to think of him.
I turn the Sphere to look down at the New Forum, where
the Senate is soon to assemble. A grand crowd, a million

strong, pours through the great Citadel gates beneath the
Silenius Arch to witness the vote. According to the
Compact, the Tribunes decide if the public should witness.
Despite the fever, they are right to include them. It will be
beautiful when Dancer and I unite the Vox and the
Optimates in common cause. When Publius’s betrayal fails
to hijack the vote. It will be a victory for our way of life and
our means of governance. In the plaza east of the New
Forum, vendors sell sticky sweets and steam swirls up from
hot spiced Martian wine. Children hold their parents’
hands. Men carry icons of their political religions. The Vox
with upside-down pyramids, broken chains. Some
broadcast my head with a bloody crown from
holoprojectors on their shoulders. The Optimates stand in
small clutches with plastic slingBlades or pegasuses or
lions projected into the air.
“Don’t look too bloodydamn happy,” Sevro mutters
behind me. “Dancer still has to prove he’s not a load of
steaming shit.”
“And you have a Queen to kill.”
I cycle the Sphere until Old Tokyo ﬁlls the view. The
megacity of Earth sprawls in the night. With the
information gleaned from the Duke of Hands’ memories, I
have found the Syndicate Queen’s refuge. Fifty thousand of
my house troops along with Darrow’s Seventh Legion will
move in a coordinated strike against Syndicate operations
on Earth, Mars, and Luna, while Sevro and two cohorts pull
the chief weed out themselves. They will do it when all eyes
are on me and the vote.
“Looking forward to it,” Sevro says.
I turn from the central plinth to ﬁnd him standing behind
me in the Sphere with Daxo. Fully armored, wolfcloak on
his shoulder, face painted jade green, he is ready for
transport. Beside him, Daxo looks the picture of majestic
civility in his senatorial toga. His arms are bare beneath

the toga, and how mighty those Telemanus limbs look—
made for violence, but restrained in favor of words because
he trusts me, if not my faith in demokracy. Kavax saunters
in to join us. He stands quietly behind his son with a hand
on his shoulder and Sophocles threading between his legs.
Next to Daxo and Sevro, both in their prime, he looks
pale and old. Even his genes can’t hide the ravages of war.
His beard has gone white. He still blames himself for Pax’s
abduction. It has not been an easy road to recovery for him,
but he favors me with a smile. “Niobe is oﬀ to Mars to
rendezvous with our house ﬂeets and the Ecliptic Guard,”
he says. “She sends her love, and she’ll see you through the
ﬁres of the Annihilo.”
“And the bodies,” Sevro says. “Never forget the
kindling.”
“Of course! The bodies,” Kavax says. “Sevro, could you
fetch my cane? My legs ache.”
“Slag oﬀ, old man. I’m not a servant. I’m a terrorist war
—”
“Now!” Kavax booms. “It’s just outside the Crescent
Vault. Fetch it or Sophocles will bite you!”
“By myself? That place is creepy shit. Fine. Losing your
marbles.” Muttering to himself, Sevro humors the old man
and leaves the Sphere. He appears a moment later. “I’ll
know if you talk about me.” He leaves again.
The two Telemanuses wait for him to reappear. When he
doesn’t, they join me in the center. “We’ll bring Thraxa
home,” I tell Kavax. “I will keep that promise.”
Kavax glances once more at the door to make sure Sevro
is gone. “There are things I doubt in this world,” he replies
in his luxurious private tone. Intelligence radiates from
eyes usually misted by his lifelong ruse. “The constitution
of Obsidian virtues, the ramiﬁcations of universal suﬀrage,
Sevro’s personal hygiene, my violence on behalf of your

father, my wife’s mental perspicacity for selecting me for
life”—he adopts his public face—“to join in union a
doddering madman! Weird woman! Addled in the wits!
Madness! Absolute madness!” His internal cleverness
reclaims his face. “But never Virginia au Augustus.” He
cups my face. “Daxo told me what you did with Dancer.
What you did with Sevro. You never get the credit you
deserve, my dear. Because people are suspect and
frightened of what they do not understand. I’ve hidden
myself for so many years—from Nero, from the world. But
you never have. That is a bravery I cannot understand. You
are good, my dear. You are patient when it is not in your
nature. You are attentive when you are taken for granted.
You are kind when the world insists it is convenient to be
cruel. You are good. True good. Victra will bring Pax back. I
know this. You will save your husband. You deserve this
day.”
I nod, knowing there’s much work left to do.
“No, look at me, child.” He turns my chin so that I look
deep into the eyes underneath those tangled eyebrows. “It
has possessed my thoughts. You deserve this day. You
deserve this joy. You deserve this proof that your faith is not
just right, but necessary.”
I ﬁnd myself in tears, and I can’t reason why. There are
things you know, but when revealed to be known by others
can make the world shine in a peculiar way. I feel seen, as
only my husband has ever seen me. Kavax dabs the tears
away. “There, there,” he says, bringing me into a hug. I’ve
been too busy to see Kavax. Or maybe just too frightened to
see him weak. How dare I presume his strength is in his
body. I hug him hard and Sophocles paws my leg in
jealousy. Always mindful of his father, Daxo scoops the fox
up to give us the moment.
“Will you come today?” I ask, pulling away.

“No,” Kavax says. “No, I am tired of all this rancor. I
think I will go to the sea with Sophocles. I don’t like the
Citadel without Niobe.” He takes Sophocles back from
Daxo. “And I’ve been promising this one a swim, haven’t I,
and you know how passive-aggressive the little prince gets.
Yes, he does. Yes, he does. Shit in my shoes! In my closet!
Everywhere!” He open-mouth kisses the fox, who takes
perhaps too much enjoyment from it.
“But we will have dinner tonight at my estate. A family
dinner. For my son”—he sets a hand on Daxo’s shoulder
—“who has done himself proud, resurrected his family’s
honor, and whom I could not be happier for. Except if he
found a wife! I want babies to ride Sophocles! Or a
husband!” He covers Sophocles’s ears. “Cloning is always
an option, remember.” He laughs to himself. “And my
daughter will come too”—he looks at me—“for she has been
the twinkle in my eye since that summer she joined our
family.” Sevro appears in the door. “The sea!” Kavax booms.
“To the sea I go.”
“Here’s your stupid cane,” Sevro says.
“I need no cane! What am I, an invalid? A dullard?”
Kavax booms. “I just wanted to see if you’d get it. Now who
is the dullard! Ha!”
“Man.” Sevro chuckles. “You’re so crazy.”
After Kavax has sauntered away with his pet, Daxo
makes a small noise of distaste. “That was emotional. I
hope he’s not dying.”
“He’s not. I just think he’s ﬁnally realized he’s mortal,” I
say.
“I think we should clone him,” Sevro says.
“Jove. The fox is bad enough,” I say.
“Yes, but could you imagine a child Kavax with that
beard?” Sevro asks. “He’d be a right legend. He could
marry Electra!” I make a face. “What? She can’t marry Pax.

No oﬀense, but he’s too smart. And my girl likes being
stupid.” He scratches his goatee. “Bet Mickey would do it.
We’d need to keep it secret. Yes.” He chews his lip in
thinking over the logistics.
“I could raise him,” Daxo says. “I have always wanted a
worthy child to shape and mold.”
Sevro and I look at each other. “Nah, prolly a bad idea,”
Sevro says. “You know, clones are creepy and all. Always
something wrong with the human ones.” Daxo is lost,
peering at the ceiling in thought. Behind his back, Sevro
makes a big X with arms at the cloning idea.
“Be careful on Earth,” I say. “Old Tokyo is Warden
territory. Get in. Get out. And bring me that Queen’s head.”
“Attached?”
“If possible. If not, permission to cauterize. And, would
you mind taking the tunnels out, please.”
“Done.” He lurches forward to slap Daxo’s ass and stalks
out. The smell of wolf lingers.
“I have thought it over. I think I would be a good father,”
Daxo says at last. “After all, I have a ﬁne example to follow.”

***VirginiaThe day is crisp and clear, and bountiful with the scents

of a Luna spring. The sky is the color of young ﬁre. The
trees along the promenade that leads from the Palatine Hill
through the central Citadel park to the Forum blaze with
color and life and pungent ﬂoral notes. Soldiers stop to
salute as my motorcade rolls past. Administrators rush
along park paths toward the Forum to make it there in time
to watch the vote from the steps. Gaggles of children from
the Citadel schools trot along in small packs, amongst them
Lyria’s little nephew, Liam, his eyes gazing wide up at the
trees and the monkeycats swinging from the branches with
fresh sight. Though Victra took the girl, and likely has
already disposed of her, Lyria’s bravery should be
rewarded. I made sure Mickey himself gave the boy his
sight months ago.
Lionguard greet me as I arrive at the western entrance
to the Forum with Daxo and Holiday. The whole cadre of
loyal Optimate senators, Golds, Grays, Whites, and half the

Silvers wait with two dozen Martian senators as Daxo and I
disembark. Publius the Incorruptible stands beside this
group surrounded by dozens of Terran and even a few
Lunese senators that I sacriﬁced my Silver alliance to gain.
With Holiday standing watch, I shake the traitor’s hand.
“A ﬁne day for a ﬁne moment,” Publius says.
“Couldn’t agree more.”
I take Holiday by the shoulder and step away. “After
Dancer gives me the Vox votes, the crowd may get
unruly….”
“We have support legions ready to go on the ﬁeld of Ares,
ma’am.”
“Good.” I sigh. “This is it then.”
“Ma’am…” I turn back to her. “It must be said: It is in
honor to serve a true Sovereign.”
I don’t think I can adequately explain how much that
means from someone like her. I nod and step away from the
protection of the Lionguard to that of the blue-cloaked
Warden, guardians of the Senate and Republic.
I begin my ascent up the Forum’s Western Stairs, Daxo at
my right, and the phalanx of Optimates and new allies
behind in their ﬂowing togas. At the crest, we enter the
grand ﬁfty-meter-high doors, through the stone columns
onto the varnished ﬂoor. From the Southern Stairs, Vox
Populi make their own entrance, Dancer limping along at
the head of sixty strong senators of Red, Orange, Brown,
the core of the Vox, and their less zealous allies, Blue,
Green, and Violet. They carry a standard made of raw wood
and ugly iron—an upside-down pyramid unadorned with
ﬂourishes. Under the watch of the neutral Wardens, the
two opposing factions descend to their seats as the oceanic
sounds of the crowd in the East Park lap into the Forum.
The Obsidian are already seated, making it clear they stand
apart.

If only all knew how far gone they already were.
I do not yet take my Morning Chair down in the center of
the Senate pit. I walk around the rim of the pit to the East
Door, where several stout Gray Wardens stand guard, and
look down the Eastern Stairs, past the line of Wardens and
anti-matter pulseShields that stretch between metal pylons
at the base of the stairs, to the park below. A sea of
humanity ﬁlls it, their disparate faces distorted by the
shields so that they look like the confetti brushstrokes of a
Frankish
Impressionist.
Roars
of
approval
and
condemnation lap against me. I smile. Soon they will
witness the vindication of our way of governance.
—
“Senators of the Republic, you are convened today in
common assembly to vote upon a matter of dire urgency,” I
say from the discomfort of my chair. The senators surround
me, looking down from their seats on the tiered marble
steps. “Much has been made of the divide between our
peoples. Today I hope to see that divide closed. A resolution
has been put before you by Senator Telemanus. Senator.”
Daxo stands to his imperious height. The Optimates
shout acclamation. He looks around with vibrant eyes and
that clever, mocking smile.
“Being that the greater strength of our veteran legions
are trapped behind enemy lines due, in no small part, to
our own befuddled hands, I reintroduce that very same
resolution which was voted down one long month ago.” The
Optimates stamp their approval. “Prior arguments against
this resolution disparaged the strength of those Free
Legions.” The Optimates guﬀaw. The Vox rumble in
discontent. “And contended that they would capitulate to
the strength of the enemy before rescue could avail them.

That they would fold!” Laughter from the Optimates. “That
the Reaper of Mars was but a shadow of his former self!”
“No! No!” roar the Optimates.
“While the Reaper has much to answer for”—the Vox
murmur agreement—“he has been embraced by the troops
as the commander in the ﬁeld, and it would be folly to
discredit their wisdom on this day. The Free Legions live.
With their victory, we can see that such…pessimism, such
defeatism, such…” He wants to say “cowardice,” but a look
to me reminds him to stay his tongue and preach
conciliation. “Caution was unfounded. And while it is a
courageous notion to hold fast our lines, to protect our
spheres with all our might, I cannot see a world in which
we, my goodmen, my goodladies, can rest our weary heads
and look ourselves in the mirror knowing we condemned
our brave fellows to death. Therefore! I reintroduce my
resolution to grant the Sovereign wartime imperium over
the defense ﬂeets, so she may, in her wisdom, prosecute
this war to its rightful and expedient conclusion!”
As Daxo sits, the Optimates stand with a roar. And
outside, the smaller part of the crowd echoes their
agreement as they watch the great projection of the Senate
that streams above the Forum. But the greater part, the
lowColors with their more numerous constituencies, wait
for the man who has bound them together and given them
a voice as loud as any Gold’s in the Society.
Dancer politely waits for the other blocs to speak.
The Silvers sit in silence. I have half their votes, if not
their love, votes from those who fear my wrath outweighs
their fear of Quicksilver’s. The Coppers also sit in silence. I
look to Publius and tilt my head. It is his turn to stand. Yet
he demurs, passing his time to the next bloc. I try to catch
his eye. Something has changed. This should be where the
trap springs and he denounces me. Has he made a deal
with Zan?

Does he know I have Dancer?
My internal com beeps a priority message from
Theodora. Keeping my face blank, I allow it through. “My
Sovereign, Sevro has a priority-one message from Earth.” I
instruct her to put it through to Daxo as well.
Dancer eases to his feet.
The rugged man in brilliant white looks at me with a soft
smile of reassurance as I wait for Sevro’s message.
“It is good today that the weather is ﬁne and bright. That
so many of our concerned citizens parted with the rigors of
their own lives, and many rigors there are, to attend this
assembly, lifts my heart.” He tries hard to match Daxo’s
eloquence, but is more at home with simpler diction. “How
far we have come in ten short years from the darkness of
Society. How many of you could envision this day? Not as
some dream, but as reality? Few. Very few, I wager. Even
Fitchner Barca, the father of this revolution, had doubts. As
did I.” He smiles, perhaps remembering the pain of those
long years with the Sons. “My fellows, you are to be
congratulated for your part, small as it may seem, in
making this grand experiment possible.”
He hiccups softly before continuing.
“Our union is based not on our shared past, but on our
hopeful future.” He frowns in irritation as a Brown senator
behind him hiccups loudly into her sleeve. “Yet, even now
agents of the enemy seek to divide that…”
“Mustang…” There’s fear in Sevro’s voice. He’s out of
breath. I hear boot steps on metal grating. “Mustang…
Boneriders in Old Tokyo…trap.” There’s an explosion and
the feed cuts to static.
Boneriders.
I hear blood in my ears.
I look over to Daxo. Billions are watching on live stream.
I can’t leave. We need this vote now. Theodora will have to

take point. She’ll dispatch units to aid Sevro.
Boneriders?
How could it be possible? They should still be imprisoned
in Deepgrave. Has the prison been penetrated yet again?
Are they working with the Syndicate?
It makes no sense. It has to be a trick. Sevro must be
mistaken.
If Sevro is not mistaken, this is exactly the sort of public
venue where the Boneriders would like to make a splash. I
look up and search the ceiling as if I’ll ﬁnd a bomb hidden
there. The Forum was checked a dozen times by Holiday
and the Warden. It has to be clean. If Old Tokyo was a trap,
then how did the Syndicate know I was coming? A mole?
Did they count on me cracking the duke? I whisper for the
Pegasus Legion units I have on standby north of Hyperion
to come to the Citadel to join my Lionguard on the Field of
Ares. Outside the Forum, Holiday goes on high alert.
Another hiccup escapes Dancer’s lips and he reaches up
with a hand to scratch his throat. “Our Gold enemy proﬁts
when we are divided.” He clears his throat roughly. “…So
today I seek an end to that—”
A great mucus-ﬁlled hiccup escapes his lips and his
hands wrench into a cramped, infantile movement to paw
at his chest. The Red senators beside him rustle in concern.
But then another hiccups in their ranks. And another. Using
the shoulders of the senators beneath him, Dancer pulls
himself upright, his eyes confused and unfocused. “Today I
seek to—”
Then comes the horror.
A clump of blood and lung tissue vomits out of Dancer’s
mouth.
It bathes the togas of the senators beneath him in red
pulp. Hands windmilling, he topples over onto their heads.
They collapse under the weight and with shouts set him on

the ground. Panic swirls around Dancer as he contorts
violently on the stone, blood dribbling from his bodily
oriﬁces. His eyes bulge from his head and his hands paw
the ground. Publius rushes to cradle his head. “Gas!” I
shout, holding my breath. But the pathogen detectors do
not wail. The room does not seal and vent. And my personal
defense-ring around my wrist continues to blink silver,
detecting no abnormalities.
I summon the Lionguards waiting underneath the Forum,
but none reply on my internal com. None come through the
interior doors.
I connect to Holiday. “Evacuation Protocol. The Wardens
are likely compromised. Fire if they move to engage.”
“Already moving to West Door. Support. Lionguards
unresponsive.”
Daxo rushes to me along with the Gold and Gray
senators, and they form a wall around my person. Through
their shoulders, I watch Dancer and his lieutenants die,
helpless to stop it.
The Vox Populi shout in anger, in fear, calling for medici
as the Yellow senators push through their ranks to come
down the stairs. But then one stumbles and grips his chest
before heaving his own blood onto the ﬂoor.
Amidst Vox Populi, the clutch of Dancer’s most stalwart
moderate lieutenants reel, beset by the same violent
malady. Blood pours from their convulsing bodies as their
limbs ﬂail in an atavistic dance and those around them are
torn between helping and running, for fear that the
pathogen is carried in their blood.
“Wardens, help them!” someone shouts.
But the Wardens above, around the rim of the Senate pit,
do not rush to give aid. In their green cloaks, they watch
without pity or connection, and then ﬁle out the doors. On
the ﬂoor, Dancer’s spasms have subsided. His blood smears

Publius’s face and hands. He pulls back from the Copper to
look up at me with eyes wild and white as a dying horse’s.
His mouth opens, a bloody, twisted maw. He mouths
something to me, but his voice has been robbed from him
and no sound comes out.
“He’s dead…” Publius whispers. “O’Faran is dead!”
The hope in me dies with him.
Then Publius cu Caraval stands in the chaos.
I know, as his lips curl back from his white teeth, as his
eyes glimmer bright with long-hidden fervor, and his bloody
ﬁnger extends in my direction, that he knew Dancer and I
had come to terms. How?
“Murderer!” the Incorruptible wails. “Tyrant!”
“Tyrant!” the surviving Vox echo, pointing their ﬁngers
like blood-drenched scarecrows amidst the ﬁeld of their
dying compatriots. “Tyrant!”
We ﬂee in force. Optimates cluster around me and we
ascend the stairs away from the charnel house. My internal
com swarms with dread.
“Citadel and Skyhall are under attack. Republic forces…”
“Seventh Legion shuttles taking ﬁre…”
“Warden forces ﬁring on Lionguard outside Moon…”
“Echo of Ares reports their captain has been shot…”
“ArchImperator Zan moving on Augustan ships.”
“…Lake Silene has inbound Republic assault craft.”
Ships are going for Darrow’s mother, Vox legions
assaulting ones loyal to me.
It is a coup.
With Daxo pushing me along in the center of a knot of
Optimates, I rush up the last of the stairs to the West Door.
We make the ﬂats around the senate pit and rush to the
exit. At the head of a clutch of heavily armed Lionguard,
Holiday exchanges heavy ﬁre outside the Forum with

Warden elements. Taking casualties, they press up the
stairs outside the forum as aerial soldiers in gravBoots
dogﬁght over the parks.
But as they reach the top stair and make to meet us at
the door, a forty-meter-tall Drachenjäger lands at the edge
of the park. Its twin railguns train themselves on Holiday.
She shouts to take cover. Too late.
I watch in horror as metal slugs moving at three times
the speed of sound make my Martian soldiers mist. The
slugs shred the marble steps and skip up into the Forum,
raining splinters of rock down on us. I’m ﬂattened by Gold
and Gray senators, who use their bodies to shield mine.
Senator Tiberius ti Han screams as his arm is taken oﬀ at
the elbow by a ricochet. The next one takes his torso oﬀ at
the hips.
From under their bodies, I see out the doors. The
Drachenjäger is teetering sideways, a huge hole in its
cockpit. From amidst the bodies of dead Lionguard,
Holiday turns her anti-tank railriﬂe up the steps at the
Wardens blocking our escape. Five Wardens are cut in half.
A sixth Warden explodes in a shower of gristle and metal.
His cape detaches and slaps wetly against the groaning
marble door as it slides to trap us inside the Forum. Daxo
reaches the door alone and hauls against it till the veins
stand out in his neck and his ﬁngers crack the stone. A
shoulder pops from its socket.
“Run, you fools!” he roars at us.
I push the Gold senators oﬀ me, but I’m too far from the
door and the mechanized hinges cannot be stopped even by
a Telemanus.
“Go!” I shout at him. “Daxo, go!”
My heart breaks as Daxo looks at the narrowing sliver of
salvation. His face is red from exertion. His lips pull back
from his teeth. He could escape, abandon me, but instead a

calmness comes over him and he releases his grip on the
door. It seals with a loud thump and he turns to me and
shrugs.
With my com I open a master channel to my entire
security network. “Black Cathedral,” I say. “Repeat, Black
Cathedral—” But the signal goes down. Daxo puts a hand
on my shoulder. His eyes are ﬁxed on something behind
me. I turn in time to see a concussion detonate outside the
East Door. In the plaza beyond, the colorful crowd has
disintegrated into a frenzied mob.
“The shield…” Daxo whispers.
Smoke billows. A shield pylon teeters sideways. Sparks
shiver out from its sides and, with a blue shimmer, the
barrier separating us from the mob disappears. Oh no.
A tide of humanity rolls up the white steps toward the
only open door.
Senators scream and scramble to beat against the other
doors for escape. The remnants of the Vox Populi, some
thirty of their fringe zealots, huddle around Dancer’s body
down in the Senate pit. Publius is amongst them, his face
wild with righteous rage as he shouts for the mob and
points toward us as if he were some necromantic conjurer
hurling his murderous spirits forward.
“Optimates, to me!” I shout.
Barely half of them hear me. The rest have broken up
amongst the Forum to beat on the doors, to hide behind
columns, to raise their hands in supplication to the mob
that teems toward the open East Door. Their faces sunburnt
and pale, wide and narrow, eyes Red and Brown and
Orange, mad with communal rage, their arms carrying bent
bits of fences, stakes from propaganda signs, hammers,
and even blackmarket scorchers, they roil toward us. A
dozen in front, a hundred behind, and thousands pushing
them forward.

I watch a Blue senator tear herself away from her hiding
place amongst the columns and stand bravely at the East
Door and face down the mob with an outstretched hand.
“No violence!” she declares majestically. “No violence!” she
repeats just before a Red man caves her head in with an
iron Vox pyramid on the end of a wooden pole. The mob
swallows them. They disappear and all I can see is the iron
pyramid rising and falling above the swarm. A Pink senator
falls. Frail bones shatter as he curls inward like a dying
spider. They pull Optimate senators from their hiding
places and smash their heads open against the marble.
Senators ﬂee from them, tripping and falling, skinning
their knees and prying themselves up to scramble away,
their togas white but for the hems that are stained in blood,
so that they look like the ﬂuttering wings of red doves in
ﬂight.
The Obsidian senators, all women, all former warriors,
join our lines with a solemn nod.
“Virginia, stand behind me,” Daxo says in a low growl. I
step to his side. With a small laugh, he peels the wool of his
toga as if it were made of paper. Free of the encumbrance,
he stands bare chested, bare limbed, a monster clothed
only in undershorts before the mob. His shoulders are
broad as a thunderhead. His back muscled like a sunblood
stallion’s. The angels on his head glorious and golden and
dancing down his spine to his lower back. But his huge
hands are bare and empty.
“Daxo!” I hand him the Dawn Scepter. He spins it, a
meter of solid iron with the fourteen-pointed star of our
Republic glittering on the end. “Gold and Obsidian, ﬁrst
rank! Gray second.” I shout over the furor as the mob runs
around the sides of the Senate pit to reach us. Those
soldiers amongst the Optimates, many old and stooped, but
sinewy and dogged in the ways of war, rustle forward to

stand ﬁfteen abreast in velvet slippers and white togas to
defend the cluster of thin-boned senators behind us.
I pull on the metal tab underneath the left pocket of my
jacket. My secondary razor slithers out of the spine of my
jacket, to form into a meter and a third of rigid metal. I
lean toward Daxo.
“On my command: terror.”
The mob does not hit us in a wave. The wild vanguard
was prepped. Pupils ﬂaring with stims and intoxicants, they
sprint headlong at us with homemade weapons—hammers
and knives—a few with blackmarket scorchers. A scorcher
ﬂares. White light ripples across the Forum and the
Obsidian senator to the left of me screams as her stomach
ruptures open. She stumbles away, half her torso boiling.
“Now,” I tell Daxo.
“LIONHEART!”
…and death for four meters.
He cleaves the Red with the scorcher in half with the
edge of the Dawn Scepter’s star. A man swings at him with
a knife. Daxo is already past him, but reaches back to
shatter his hand and take the knife. He wheels it down on
the head of a Brown in a hammer stroke, ﬂattening the
head, and then casually ﬂicks the scepter back into and
through the face of another man before bringing it about in
a wheeling stroke that shatters three more of the rioters.
He kicks a Brown woman in the chest. Her sternum
collapses and a bulge from his foot pushes out her back.
The last, a young Red man with piercings through the
bridge of his nose, stabs at Daxo. Daxo catches the blade in
his left hand. It sinks into the palm but bends against the
reinforced bone as Daxo pushes back till the man’s
straightened arm snaps like a twig. Daxo embeds the
scepter in the man’s chest and grabs the man’s other hand.
He pulls on both arms, lifting the man in the air so that he

is eye to eye with Daxo, his feet kicking half a meter from
the ground. With a roar, Daxo pulls oﬀ both the man’s
arms. The body drops to the ﬂoor, spitting blood. Daxo rips
the scepter out of the man, pulling ribs with it, and beats
his own bloody chest with gore-spattered hands.
“LIONHEART!!!” He spins the scepter, pointing it at the
crowd. “Dogs! Traitors! In the name of your Sovereign,
disarm! Disarm!”
The mob behind the massacred men skids to a halt,
terriﬁed of the Gold monstrosity. All their lives they’ve
known of Gold power, but war is fast and smoky and small
through a screen. They always suspected the myth of our
violence overwrought. Now they see what our manners
have protected them from. The courage in their numbers
withers at the terrible sight of this machine of war
unlocked from his civil chains. But the mob is a machine as
well, and its engine of courage comes from those at the
rear. They push forward, screaming and shouting and ﬁring
over the heads of those terriﬁed in the front, and the press
breaks forward, dozens amongst them falling to be
trampled by the weight of the distant brave.
The mob hits more like mud than water. Seeping around
Daxo, ﬁghting to run away, heels skidding over bloody
stone. My razor carves through the outstretched arm of a
young man holding a scorcher, through the face of a fat
woman with a rock, the neck of a screaming, terriﬁed
teenager with a mouth blue from cloud candy. Bodies push
me back and I chop madly, blindly at arms. They seep
through.
I fall back to swing again, but I collide with someone
behind me and am pushed forward into the bodies of those
I’ve maimed, who wail and hold bloody stumps and are
trampled by those behind them. I wheel and hack and slash
against ﬂailing limbs. A hammer hits my collarbone. Bone
holds. Man dies. A knife digs into my cheek and breaks a

tooth in half. Spit sprays into my eyes. Blood. Teeth bite my
leg and metal digs into my calf. Searing pain. I stomp on
someone until I feel something give.
Not ten meters away, Daxo kills and maims in a
tyrannical whirlwind like the kind Darrow and only few
others still living have ever seen in person, much less
produced.
I try to cut my way to him, but I don’t have the mass.
Bodies obscure me. Hands pull at me. Shoulders of
screaming men subvert my balance as they hit my knees.
The back of a head breaks my nose. I headbutt someone
else and feel the weaker bone crumple. Sharp metal
scrapes down my back ribs and stabs repeatedly into my
ﬂank. I howl, pinched between bodies. My legs are caught
by someone’s arms and I’m wrestled from the side by a big
Red man, his whiskers scraping into my neck. I teeter
sideways, pulled down by a mass of bodies. A gun goes oﬀ
against my thigh. I feel pressure. They pin my sword arm to
my side and bite and saw at my hand till the razor slips
free.
I crash to the ground under their weight, arms and legs
unable to move against their grip as boots stomp on my
head and kick my face. Sound goes in and out, my vision
stuttering between black and the swarm of feet and legs at
the claustrophobic underbelly of the mob. I swallow a tooth
and bite the ﬁnger oﬀ a man.
“Virginia!” I hear beyond the curses and shouts.
“Virginia!”
The big Red man atop me twitches. The iron points of a
bloody star erupt through his forehead. His eyes roll back
into his head and blood sluices onto me as Daxo pulls the
Dawn Scepter out of his crushed skull. Another man falls
between us. Daxo seizes his belt and hurls him through the
air like a doll. I glimpse my friend for a moment, his wild
eyes set in that thoughtful face. And despite the horror

around us, despite the anger in him, I see the panic of love.
He will save me. He will protect me, like he did when he
pulled me from the tossing surf as a girl.
And then he is gone, greatness borne down under a
human wave that crashes down from all directions.
A boot connects with my temple. My head lolls sideways.
Something stabs through my cheek and takes two teeth.
Numbly, I feel them tearing at my hair, my clothes, ripping
oﬀ my boots, cutting my pants with knives and my razor,
the blade scraping my skin. Two men rip oﬀ my jacket as a
woman kicks at my face, and hands paw at my breasts and
claw between my thighs. I black out in the darkness, feel
hands lifting me up, punching me, jamming into my body.
Then I am free of the mob, the press of bodies above me
gone. I open swollen eyes and see through a crack in the
darkness. Jeering faces swim beneath me, hands pass me
above their heads like a trophy. Sharp objects stick into my
buttocks, my thighs.
“Daxo,” I murmur through broken teeth, mouth full of
blood and mashed lips. “Daxo…”
I see him again through the crowd. His huge body is
splayed out on the ground, held down by a big Obsidian
with gold teeth as four others stand over him guarding a
muscular Red woman in a Hyperion sanitation uniform. Tall
for a Red, she hacks at Daxo’s neck with a hatchet till his
head dislodges. She holds it by its spine.
Without looking, she ﬂicks Daxo’s head to the mob. He
was a man who could have ruled worlds if he had even the
smallest ambition for it, who chose to serve the people even
though he despised them. He did that for me. And now his
head is tossed around like an inﬂated toy ball. The golden
angels dance no more on Daxo’s crown. They are drowned
in his blood.

The woman turns to look at me. Even set in that face, I
recognize her eyes through the Red contacts.
A demon from the past, now undead.
Lilath. My brother’s dog of war.
She is alive. She is the Queen of the Syndicate.
How?
Lilath begins to laugh at me.
With a disembodied moan, I tear my eyes away and look
up for some escape to the sky. But it is hidden from me
behind the painted plaster, where my husband ﬂoats golden
and glorious, with Sevro at his side, giving his speech to
the mob of Phobos, where he heard the heartbeat of
humanity and exhorted it to violence, to war, to the taking
of lives for liberty.
All that ﬁlls my ears is the roar of the human ocean as it
sings the song of my husband’s ﬁrst wife.

***DarrowHeliopolis steams under the early morning sun. Though

northern Helios still buckles under Orion’s storms, the
monsoon clouds that drenched Heliopolis with torrential
rain have slunk back to the Caliban Sea, leaving the city
gleaming white. It might be lovely but for the fact that the
rain was irradiated from nuclear warheads, and the air is
so thick with humidity steaming in oﬀ the Bay of Sirens
that the simple act of walking is like wading through
pudding.
My wounds are not yet healed. Everything aches. Nausea
from anti-rads grips my belly. Sweat trickles down my back
as I stand in a thick cluster of my oﬀicers to partake in the
Fading Dirge. Before us, a sea of Martians sleep upon a bed
of lavender. Spread across the tarmac of the spaceport
south of Heliopolis, their faces are green and blue, their
bodies distended by the sun so that they look like inﬂated
dolls. There is no Triumph, no victory march for the dead.
There is only this meager honor.

Scarcely one hundred thousand of the four million lost to
the sea, the sand, and the atomics have been gathered for
the Fading Dirge. Ten square kilometers of lavender were
cut from the southern latifundia by my corps of engineers
to mask the smell of the bodies. It was meant to give some
semblance of dignity to the departed as we say farewell to
them together.
There is no dignity here. A southerly wind prevails. As we
beat our ﬁsts against our hearts, the ceremony
disintegrates into farce as the dank stench of rotting eggs
and used toilets drifts up from the bodies. The infantry
maintain their ranks, but support and naval men and
women unaccustomed to the degradations of ground
combat waver, many upturning their stomachs onto the
baking concrete.
The bodies are arrayed to be cremated before our
remaining ships of war. The battle-scarred Morning Star
looms like a mountain, one and a half kilometers tall, nearly
eight long. Four torchShips lie in her shadow, and the
rickety remains of one destroyer. From atop her hull,
welders shade themselves under the guns and pause their
labor to watch. How many times has the Morning Star
saved us? By the looks of her hull and the wounds she
sustained from the storm and the battle, I don’t think she
can do it again.
Some will call the Battle of the Ladon a victory for the
Republic. I cannot. With Naran falling the night before, we
have lost all the major cities of Helios. Four million of my
men are missing or dead. Just over ﬁve million survive to
huddle beneath the shields of Heliopolis. Supplies dwindle,
especially the anti-rads. Most were in Tyche. Barely onethird of my men are ﬁt for duty, even by our elastic
standards. Our tank regiments are depleted. RipWings
down to two hundred operational craft. Drachenjägers
reduced to seven hundred. All that protects us from being

bombarded is the shield overhead. All that protects us from
being overrun are the storms beyond, and Atalantia’s fear
of what new horror I’ll conjure.
Despite our vulnerability, Atalantia has not opted for
another frontal attack on Heliopolis. Instead, with us
trapped inside, she extends her grip over the stormravaged continent and squeezes with the thoughtful
patience of an anaconda. It means no relief ﬂeet is on its
way.
But I must have hurt her badly.
By our estimates she lost twice as many as we did, most
to the storm on the northern coast of Helios. The military
camps of Venus can always provide her fresh bodies, but
her precious veterans are irreplaceable—XIII Dracones,
Ash Guard, Fulminata, Zero Legion, the Iron Leopards.
With the Iron Leopards captured or killed, a third of the
Ash Guard drowned in Tyche, Fulminata pounded by
Thraxa outside Heliopolis, how many more will she
sacriﬁce for us? None, I wager. They are needed for the
Republic. She will wait for reinforcements from Venus, and
use the raw recruits as a battering ram. There will be
nothing we can do to stop them.
All know it.
Amongst the engineering oﬀicers, Harnassus stands like
an old sea captain squinting into salt spray. Even though
she suﬀered grievous burns in the battle, Thraxa’s
shoulders loom over the heads of the Gray, Gold, and Red
infantry commanders. But amongst the naval oﬀicers, there
is an absence. For ten years the Blues orbited around Orion
with the ﬁdelity of moons to a planet; now the planet is
gone, and the moons drift untethered. They will need a new
leader.
But from where? Captain Pelus, a veteran of ten years,
might have ﬂown the Morning Star through hell, but he is
no leader. All my Imperators, save Harnassus, are gone.

Half my Praetors. More than two-thirds of my wing
commanders. Atalantia gnaws through oﬀicers who cannot
be replaced. Oﬀicers who earned their bars and then their
wings under Orion and me. Where will we ﬁnd more like
them? In the fat, ﬁligreed Home Guard? In the jockeying
politicians of Skyhall? I can only pillage the Ecliptic Guard
so far before it is staﬀed completely by children.
I turn to my lancers and ﬁnd no one there. Not
Alexandar, not Rhonna, only Screwface. He’s taken weight
oﬀ my shoulders since his return. Elated to be back with
his own, he seems the only one with any energy to spare. I
envy him that, and gave him Rat Legion to put his counterespionage skill set to work clearing the city of dissidents
and any spies the Fear Knight snuck in. “Where’s Rhonna?”
I ask him.
“Tunnels again.”
“Colloway?”
“He split from the medWard at 0400. Was wings-up by
0430.”
“He went out again?”
“With a full squadron. Man won’t rest until he ﬁnds
Orion. I thought you knew.”
I look back at the bodies. “I didn’t.”
If he dies out there, how many heroes will we have left?
A murmur goes up amongst the men. I follow the current of
hands that rise to shade their eyes. A ripWing smudges
smoke across the morning sky. Of the twelve ripWings that
went in search of Orion, three stagger back.
Colloway is not in his right mind. Since we took refuge in
the city, he has been on the ground a total of ten hours. The
time it takes to eat seven meals, receive two blood
transfusions, exchange seven crippled ripWings for fresh
ones, and be locked in the medBay under guard. Lazy
guard apparently.

Early morning condensation turns to vapor as Colloway
and his wingmen set their battered ripWings on the
concrete before the dead. Colloway’s canopy is so mangled
with enemy ﬁre it has to be welded oﬀ. When he’s free, he
bypasses the ladder and slides down his wing before
coming around to the belly of the ripWing where a bloated
body is clutched in its towing claw.
Colloway pries the body from the towing claw and tries
to carry it. She is too heavy, even in the light gravity. He
stumbles, and I ﬁnd myself moving from the oﬀicers to
reach him. Dozens of others join, including Screwface and
Thraxa, but not Harnassus. He watches stone-faced from
his oﬀicers, unable to forgive Orion, or me, for the storm
and the millions of civilians it killed.
Seawater is not kind to a dead body, nor are ﬁsh. But on
Orion’s swollen right hand is the trident ring I gave her
when I named her Navarch of the Fleet. It rests on my
shoulder as we carry her to the ﬁeld of the dead and lay her
amongst the lavender and corpses of fallen ripWing pilots.
Colloway falls to his knees there. At ﬁrst I think it from his
exertion. Then he breaks into sobs. I squat behind him,
knowing there is nothing to say. I take him by the shoulder
to lead him away, but he thrusts my hand oﬀ and wheels on
me.
“Plus twenty-four, sir,” he says. “But they’ll just send
more. There are no more Orions.” He storms away from the
funeral, making it halfway across the tarmac before
collapsing. Medici rush to him and bear him away toward
the city.
“Twenty-four makes 193 kills in six days,” Thraxa says
with a whistle. “A feat which will never be encroached upon
in our time.” As others grow numb, she grows callous.
I stare after Colloway.
Despite his natural laziness, there has always been a
fever behind his eyes—even back on Luna with a Hyperion

sprite splayed across his lap. I suspected it was a fever for
kills, chasing some imaginary number where his soul would
ﬁnally be quenched and deem it enough. Today is the ﬁrst
time I realize the number isn’t counting up. It’s counting
down. How many more can he kill before he goes?
I look back on Orion’s body one last time. It is a horrible
thing to see someone so full of life, so important in yours
and those of others, humbled by death. The corrosion of the
sea was cruel. It is no comfort to know this thing is no
longer her, just the rotting shell of what held a miracle of a
soul. Does she go to Eo and Ragnar and Fitchner? Or is she
simply gone? I do not know. Nor do I know how I will go on
without her. I feel cold despite the sun, desperate to feel
the warmth of my family, my wife, my son. Knowing how
short our time in the light is, am I the greatest of fools to
not spend every moment by their side?
Thraxa lights a burner. “Here’s for you, old girl. How
many kills you suppose you got? Bet it was more than a
hundred ninety-three.”
Fighting the instinct to break Thraxa’s jaw, I turn away
from her and return to the oﬀicers. Soon the warning siren
blares. The legionnaires and I turn our heads. Bright white
light ﬂares from the Morning Star, washing away the
meager light of morning, and when we turn back, the men
are nothing but ashes. The smell of ozone sanitizes the air,
and their comrades walk forward to scrape the ashes of
their friends into canisters in hopes of one day giving them
back to Mars. Not one of us believes we’ll ever see home
again, but they sing nonetheless.
—
Defense barricades and screening facilities have been
erected around the mouth of the Tyche-Heliopolis
GravLoop Station, which towers at the east end of the

Water Plaza. With the power severed in Tyche, the loop’s
cars stranded many refugees in the tunnel. I stood in
silence watching our ﬁrst convoys ferry the refugees
through. I thought it would be a miracle if Alexandar saved
a thousand. But the convoys continued to ﬂow for nearly
three days—families and children of all Colors. Each
sharing the same story of the Griﬀin Knights who held back
an army to give them time to escape the sea.
Whether or not they know we summoned that sea is
another matter. Some blame the Society. Some us. Others
blame nature herself.
Eventually the ﬂow became a trickle and the trickle
became no one at all and the fragment of me that held out
hope submitted to reality. Alexandar will not appear
staggering behind the last survivors, with a limp, a wry
smile, and somehow perfectly coiﬀed hair. He is drowned in
the sea. Sentimentality is no reason to allow this potential
enemy highway to continue to exist.
“How long has she been here?” I ask the centurion in
charge of the barricade. A Red, he wears a bandage over
his eye and a necklace of Red charms around his neck. A
rat skull is most prominent. Rat Legion. Toughest of those
who fought in the Rat War in the tunnels of Mars. Of course
they survived the storm, and labor while the others lick
their wounds.
“Going on six hours, sir. She’s in the atrium. Do you need
an escort?”
“No. We’ll be out in a minute. I put Rat Legion on R&R.
What are you doing here?”
“Nineteenth lost most of their men to a gravity bomb.
Thought they wouldn’t mind us picking up the slack, sir.”
I nod. After holding Heliopolis against Ajax’s army for
half a day, if anyone deserves rest, it’s Rat Legion. “Prepare
the charges.” With my bodyguards scanning the

surrounding roofs for snipers, I head up the station’s main
steps.
I ﬁnd Rhonna sitting against the base of a broken statue
inside the atrium. The right side of my niece’s head is
shaved from where the surgeons repaired the gash a Gray
digger bullet made as it tore open her helmet.
“Aren’t you supposed to be in the medWard?” I ask.
“Ain’t you supposed to be running an army?” She chews
her nails as she watches the stairs leading up out of the
tunnel.
“Can I sit?” She shrugs and I slide down next to her with
a sigh.
“Didn’t want to miss the Princess’s dramatic entrance,”
she says.
“If he were coming by tunnel, he’d be here by now.”
“I know.”
“Then you know we have to collapse the tunnel. It would
be diﬀicult to explain to my brother why I did it on his
daughter’s head.”
“Yeah.” She swallows, thinks about saying something,
then forgets it. We sit in silence watching the stairs. In
truth, I’ve been afraid to see her since we took the city. I’m
not so distracted I couldn’t see the tension between her
and Alexandar was growing into something else. For two
people who can’t stand each other, they certainly found
enough reasons to always be in the same room.
“He may still have taken the Kylor Pass,” I say.
“I know what’s what. Even if he got through the storm
and the Votum, those mountains will be crawling with
Gorgon.” She looks over at me. “If it had been me instead
of Alexandar, would you have let me go?” My ﬁrst instinct is
shame, because I’ve always resented the sort of Gold
Alexandar represented—haughty, entitled, rich. But it
wasn’t enmity that sent him to Tyche, it was respect.

“Yes.”
“You didn’t just…dispose of him…” she asks plaintively.
“Of course not.”
That answers something for her. “Such an asshole. Just
when he starts being worth a damn…” She shakes her head
and looks once more at the stairs. “All right. Slag it.” She
forces herself up. She wobbles, still woozy from the
operation. I steady her and we walk out together to join the
centurion behind the barricade.
“What’s the ﬁnal refugee count?” I ask the centurion.
“Eighty-three thousand four hundred and twenty-six
souls, sir.”
“Eighty-three thousand four hundred and twenty-six
souls,” I say to Rhonna. “Not many are lucky enough to
know how much their life is worth.”
She gives a small nod of appreciation. I signal the
centurion. The engineers go to work and soon two
thousand meters of tunnel caves in on itself. Rhonna
watches dust billow out from the mouth of the station and
then turns to me at attention. “Request permission to
return to duty, sir. I’m no good to you in the medBay.”
“Granted.”
She nods and heads back to my transport. She looks so
small against the towering statue of Poseidon. The god of
the Water Plaza holds up ninety-nine disks of water, and
thousands of thirsty birds. Rhonna disappears inside the
shuttle. She’s a soldier now. Like me.
I linger to witness the last of the rocks settle. Knowing
that Alexandar is dead, that those people he saved will soon
forget him or may die yet in the siege, I wish for one small
moment that I were a young man again who could charge
forward nourished by his own righteousness. That man
would damn the danger and search for Alexandar as
Colloway searched for Orion. But that man would have died

in the desert and taken all his men with him. That man isn’t
what my army needs. Hell, I don’t know what they need
except for a miracle. I turn and head back to my transport,
dragged forward by the weight of the day.
—
West of the city, between the Bay of Sirens and the old city,
squats the four-century-old Votum government complex
known as the Mound. It is a heavy basilica straddled by a
half-kilometer-tall statue of the city’s patron god, Helios.
Each of the fourteen spikes on his sun crown stretch the
length of ten men to puncture the blue sky. His left hand
holds a scepter, and the right moves according to the path
of the sun, so that at sunset he will cup it in his palm as it
sinks beyond the horizon. As if any man had such control.
“The rain is radioactive,” Harnassus says, dumping a box
of dead cats on the table of the old Votum warroom. Thraxa
paces along the arched windows, more interested in the
bunkers our clawDrills are carving than the inconvenient
report. We are all bald by now.
“We eat here, thank you very much for the drama,”
Thraxa says.
Harnassus grumbles on. “…fallout from the atomics used
locally. So far the Golds are scrubbing the stratosphere so
there’s limited risk of permanent global contamination. But
we’re in trouble. Orion drowned half our anti-rads in Tyche
before we could evac them. The Gorgons eliminated
another third in that bombing before we rounded them up.”
Sweat soaks Harnassus’s dirty uniform. He looks even
more exhausted than I feel. Like me, he put on a brave face
for the men at the funeral, but the Gorgons who snuck in
before we locked down Heliopolis are giving us hell, and
native insurgencies have sprung up faster than Screwface

can put them down. “Bottom line: we don’t have enough for
our men and the civilians.”
“Why are you always bringing me bad news?” I ask him.
Harnassus’s bitterness has increased exponentially since
Orion summoned the storms. I sympathize with the man,
even if I ﬁnd him a damn thorn in my side. Hate the storms
all he likes, the only reason we have an army at all is
because of its cloud and electrical cover.
“Because I’m the only one not sucking your balls.”
“Oh, do say it more directly,” Thraxa says. “As if it adds
gravitas…”
I rub my shoulder as I receive an anti-rad shot from the
Yellow medicus. The nausea has come in waves over the
last days. I thought it would be starvation that ended us,
not fallout. On my way to the Mound, I saw men with redstained handkerchiefs, others sitting in the shade with their
heads in their hands as they queued for the latrines.
Harnassus plods on. “Engineering corps believes the
symptoms
will
spike
dramatically.
We’re
already
experiencing weakness, nausea, and headaches. It will
progress to vomiting and diarrhea. Which I’ve already got.
The civilians will soon ﬁgure it out. We’ll have full-on riots
soon as the deaths start.”
“There’ve already been riots,” Thraxa says, turning her
eyes from the mountains to the refugee-choked streets of
Heliopolis. “If we share our supplies, we won’t make it two
weeks. We’re already on half-dose, already denying it to
ﬁve hundred thousand men too far gone. These people are
not our allies.”
She’s not wrong. We are not wanted here. Tyche was a
ﬁne enough home. But of the Mercurian breed,
Heliopolitans are the most cantankerous, cruel, and noisy.
Save Glirastes, it is hard to remember even one who
welcomed us when we took the planet. And with Orion’s

storm and our waning campaign, the teeth have come out.
My soldiers dare not go anywhere alone at night. Mobs
have already tried storming the food centers I set up. Even
Glirastes has spurned my calls, lurking in his palace above
the city after haranguing me about betraying my oath not
to raise the storms past primary horizon. He doesn’t
believe Orion went rogue.
I ﬁnd myself thinking about Pax, and if I would have sent
him into Tyche like Alexandar. Would I spend my boy as I’ve
spent so many others? Didn’t I spend him in a way by not
returning home? It all seems so transactional, war. Did I
spend my boy the day he was born by the virtue of my role
in the Rising? I can only hope that my wife has found him
by now. That they are together and that the ﬂeet is coming
for us. Hope. Hope won’t bring back Orion or my men. But
my wife deserves it. And here, shorn of everything else, I
am sustained only by her strength.
“We brought this upon them, Telemanus,” Harnassus
says, cooling himself with an absurd peacock fan. All
power, including that of the climate control, is being
conserved for the defense. “First we invade their planet
and bring war to their cities. Then we sink a coastline. Now
we let them wither as we huddle in their city?”
“Did I create the Mercurians to be of insubstantial
ﬁber?” Thraxa asks. “No. They lack the warrior constitution
to ﬁght for their own freedom. Mercurian Reds are anemic
compared with ours. Well, if they want to be slaves so
badly, let them embrace their own degradation, I say.”
“Thank you, Ash Lord. Let me get this proper. Because
they do not agree with us, we let their children decay and
their families die?” Harnassus sneers. The two have been at
each other’s throats since we returned to Mercury. The
enmity has grown worse in Heliopolis. Harnassus considers
Orion’s storm a genocide. Thraxa thinks it the noblest of
sacriﬁces.

“The populace is a time bomb,” Thraxa says. “You want
to keep it ticking. We could just let it ﬁzzle out.” She looks
to me. “They’re going to take up arms against us. We can
make sure right here, right now, they can’t lift those arms.”
“I always suspected you were a demokrat of
convenience,” Harnassus replies. “At least Orion’s villainy
can be traced to anger. Yours is just cold blood.”
“Cold blood wins wars,” Thraxa says. “You should know.
You’re no snowy virgin yourself. Not after Echo City.”
Harnassus’s jaw clenches. “If the Vox had more cold blood
and less envy, the ﬂeet would never have been split and
vulnerable to Atalantia, and we’d never be in this
quagmire. Your friends are to blame, Harnassus. You are to
blame. And now you quibble and pretend like this is all
Darrow’s fault. The hypocrisy disgusts me.”
Harnassus stands to his full unimpressive height. “I will
not stand by and watch children decay.”
“Then you will lie on your back shitting blood as your
men decay,” Thraxa says. “While my men do not.”
“Enough,” I snap. “You’re like children. At least try, for
me?” The door opens and Screwface prances in.
“Apologies,” he says, stripping oﬀ his scarlet Heliopolitan
scarf and riding gloves. “Two Gorgon were caught in the
water ﬁltration plant. Blaggards thought the Reds would be
on their heels from rad poisoning. Sturdy Rat Legion is
sturdy. I got this place on lock.” He ﬂops down in a chair
and wrinkles his nose at Harnassus’s cats. “What’d I miss?”
“We’re just cutting to business,” I say, “Harnassus,
you’ve taken stock of the engineer and support legions,
Thraxa the armored and heavy infantry, Screw the special
ops and navy. What do you perceive our chances of escape
to be?”
They grow quiet. Screwface looks at his manicured
hands.

“That low? You’d never guess we just won our greatest
statistical victory of the war.”
“We just don’t have the ships to escape,” Harnassus says.
“Four torchShips, one destroyer. The Morning Star may
never ﬂy again. If we take out all extraneous systems of the
other ships, we could just barely ﬁt the men. Doesn’t
matter anyway. Just two of Atalantia’s dreadnoughts will
make us atoms, and those torchShips of theirs are faster
than the Star. If we get to space, they’ll hunt us down. But
we won’t get to space. They have the gravity well. If a
single ship made it to orbit, it would be a miracle.”
“What if we…acquired their ships?” Thraxa asks, looking
to Screwface. “Get a team to orbit and try to take one or
two of those dreadnoughts.”
His eyes go wide and he whistles. “I wouldn’t volunteer
personally…they’re blasting anything that comes within a
hundred klicks. And the Gorgon have response teams on
board. Atalantia’s just waiting with a net.”
“She knows me too well for that to work this time,” I say
to Screw’s nod of agreement. “If we saw an opening, it
would likely be a trap. The noose is tightening. If we move
outside the shield, she’ll stomp on us like bugs.”
I intended to move the ships in the storm cover, under
the veil of electronic interference, to prepare some devilry
for Atalantia. But the level of storm Orion summoned made
that impossible, and even killed four of our torchShips.
Now all my cards are used up. They know it. I know it. And
I have the sneaking suspicion Atalantia knows it. There are
no tricks left to play. “We are in a cage,” I say. “All that can
deliver us is the Sovereign. And I believe she will.”
“You believe?” Thraxa says. “She won’t move the Senate.
The Vox will sacriﬁce us. Dancer will let us die to get back
at you for the Sons on the Rim. No one is coming.”

Sadly, Harnassus agrees. “I know Dancer. He’ll wear
diamonds before he risks Atalantia’s trap, not after that
false peace. He’s prouder than he thinks. I know neither of
you want to hear it, but after that battle we’re not an army
anymore. We’re just bait on a hook. All’s left to do is
remove the bait.”
“Surrender?” Thraxa asks in horror.
Harnassus’s lips barely move. “Perhaps.”
“If we surrender, they will kill all of us,” Thraxa says.
“Worse,” Screw says. “I would know. I’ve watched her
play with Howlers.” He blinks and covers his unease with a
smile for a seagull that lands on the balcony outside.
“They would torture and kill us four,” Harnassus agrees.
“But they will need labor to rebuild after this. Not all of the
men will survive, but some will. Some is better than none.”
He meets my eyes. “At least tell me you will consider it.”
I lean back in my chair as Thraxa and Screwface hold
their breath. “Harnassus, in order for me to consider that, I
would have to continue to make the same mistake that put
us here: doubt my wife. I have done that before, to the
detriment of us all.” With me taking shortcuts, as Sevro
said. “And I would have to make a mistake I have not made
in ﬁfteen years: fool myself into believing slavery is better
than death. I will not do that.”
Thraxa nods. The tension releases from Screw. He’s
afraid of Atalantia. More afraid than he’ll ever admit.
Harnassus says nothing. He disagrees.
“I was ready to sacriﬁce this army to break theirs,
because I did not believe the Republic would come.
Because I thought killing them would give the Republic the
best hope in this war. In that moment of choice, I listened
to you, Harnassus. If we save this army, it will be a victory
to inspire the worlds.

“We will save this army by having faith in our Republic,
in our Sovereign. There will be no surrender, no escape
plan that exposes the army so Atalantia can drive a stake
through our hearts. My wife said the ships would come. So
they will come. Until then, we share what we have with the
civilians.”
“It won’t last the week,” Thraxa objects.
“We share what we have with the civilians.”
A knock comes at the door and Rhonna steps through
looking frightened. “Sir, we’ve received a tightbeam from
the Annihilo.” Screwface’s head snaps in her direction.
“Atalantia has requested an audience.” Her eyes dart to the
ﬂoor. “She says it concerns your wife.”

***Darrow“It's disappointing we didn't get to meet in person,” I say

to Atalantia. “I had such plans for you.”
“Yes, well, I’m not terribly fond of having conversations
when I’m on the back foot. And I will admit, you put me
there.”
“Lady, I fucked you up.”
She grimaces. “Indeed, but that is the nature of you and
me. Gamblers both. I won the ﬁrst hand. You won the last.
Though I must admit, I am surprised you had the temerity
to use those machines. What devious designs freedom
requires. One must worry about the strength of a principle
when it must compromise itself so often to survive. At least
we’re consistent, eh?”
I do not tell her it was Orion’s decision. More the
monster I appear, more hesitant will she be in encroaching
upon Heliopolis. Today she is in a playful mood, which
worries me. I know I hurt her worse than she’s letting on.
Her eyes are of warm gold and her mouth sensuous in a

way that reminds me of Nidhogg, the serpent of Obsidian
myth who gnaws at the root of the world tree. She walks
around her absurd gold throne, tracing her nails along its
spikes. The snake that she customarily wears around her
neck coils around the throne’s arms.
She laughs at a private joke, then makes it public. “Don’t
you ﬁnd it peculiar? The human conviction that we are the
heirs of history instead of paragraphs that are almost over.
A survival mechanism, no doubt.
“My father knew otherwise, of course,” she continues.
“He was even more avid an historian than Atlas with his
little library. That’s what made them fond of each other, you
know. My father could read Sumerian, Akkadian, Eblaite,
Hurrian, Hittite, Ugaritic, First Chinese, and thirty-two
other dead languages. And all he learned from them was an
aversion to risk. He was never fond of betting it all on a roll
of the dice, like we do. But one story did stick. He told it to
me when as a girl I had it in my mind to brawl with Aja
when she rode my favorite sunblood stallion without
asking.”
She pulls the snake from the arm of her chair and lets it
coil around her neck.
“In the years between 280 and 275 BC, a young king
dared to resist the expanding Roman Republic.” Her ﬁnger
traces along the snake as it moves. “This king was beloved
by his men, shrewd in the ways of battle. Much like you. To
the surprise of the known world, he enjoyed initial
successes against the legions. Appalling them with
fearsome beasts from barbarous lands.” The snake lifts its
head toward Atalantia’s face. “War elephants and the like.
But these battles cost the king. He could not call up more
men from his lands. And elephants are so few. In contrast,
the Romans could draw from an immeasurable well of
manpower.” The snake’s mouth slowly opens before
Atalantia. “The king soon realized this and when

congratulated for a victory, he cried out, ‘If we are
victorious in one more battle with the Romans, we shall be
utterly ruined.’ ” Atalantia extends her tongue to take the
smallest prick from the right fang of the snake. She
shudders as the microdose of poison races through her
bloodstream. Her voice creeps toward sensuous as she
slinks toward her chair and sinks into its embrace. “I
measure you know this king’s name?”
“Pyrrhus,” I answer. “Don’t fret. I didn’t waste your tax
dollars to get a bad education.”
“I presume you know, then, what happened next?”
“Rome consumed Pyrrhus because of his victories. But
there is one problem. You are not Rome, are you?” I say.
“We are greater than Rome. You may have wounded my
legions, but my ﬂeet would eviscerate the Scepter Armada
of ten years ago. With the reserves on Venus, my legions
dwarf Octavia’s standing army. We were a shadow of
ourselves in her time. A tiny fraction of Peerless Scarred
holding up the morbid obesity of the Pixies. But you have
sharpened our edge. Given me a new generation of soldiers
who want nothing more than to be the hand that killed the
Reaper. The ﬁrst is already in the fray. In four years’ time,
half a million will turn sixteen. You know the breeding
protocols my father made law when Luna fell. Six hundred
thousand triplets raised with one thing on their mind:
subjugation.”
“I wasn’t talking about the Society, Atalantia. I was
talking about you. You are what’s lacking.” She smiles,
welcoming the critique. “Just the least-loved daughter of a
butcher. I imagine you have convinced yourself it was
because you were misunderstood. A survival mechanism, I
imagine. But I knew Magnus. I fought him for almost a
decade. We had chats like this, he and I. Though he never
babbled like you, and we had a mutual understanding to
not atomize every plot of ground we couldn’t take.

“You were not misunderstood by your father, Atalantia.
You were simply disliked. Aja was his pride. Moira was his
joy. You were just…there with your silk, and your Venusian
orgies. Acting out to get attention. And now you’re his last
resort. The pitiable last sentence of a family saga that is
almost over.” Her mouth takes on a truculent expression.
“Even if you beat us here, the world has changed, and
there is no place for you in it.”
“No,” she snaps. “Your civilization is a clumsy design.
Given liberty, each man will seek his own delight. Few
indeed are the men whose delight is war. Your civilization,
then, does not want war. Our civilization is an eﬀicient
engine. It wants what I want. And what do you think I
want?”
She smiles. Not because she knows she is right, but
because she knows something I don’t. For a woman with
such a thin reputation before all this began, she has
changed. The frivolity is gone. But the capricious cruelty
natural to her spirit remains, emboldened now by her
training under her father, by her collaboration with Atlas.
“You may have won a victory, but your situation is
untenable. You are treading water,” she says. “I understand
it makes sense, knowing what you know. You believe your
wife is coming for you. That she and Sevro will save you as
they always have. I have beliefs too. I believe in beauty
above all things. And I believe your religion of demokracy
to be a disease. A disease that deceives you. That devours
itself every time it has infected a civilization—Athens, the
American Empire, the Indian. I proposed to my father that
exposing this disease would cauterize it far more
thoroughly than warfare. He was dubious. A pity he never
saw sins of the past come to fruition.”
Atalantia claps her hands together and her face
disappears to reveal my wife speaking on the ﬂoor of the
Senate. She looks younger than I remember. Pure and

dazzling, when my world has become nothing but so much
dust. In fact, everything seems absurdly white and clean—
the robes of the senators, the marble, the air itself. Daxo
rises to speak, and then my old friend Dancer. I sense
something is wrong long before the blood spews from his
mouth. And with creeping dread that mutates into abject
revulsion, I watch the Senate disintegrate into a horror
more appalling than I could ever imagine. The mob devours
the Optimates.
They even sing Eo’s song as they bear my dying wife
upon a sea of bloody hands. I stare at her, at Daxo’s head
tossed about like a rubber ball through the crowd. I have
felt this once before, when Eo swung upon the gallows. As
if the foundation of my being were gone, and I glimpsed for
one small moment the reality of my existence. There is no
life without that woman. There is just a cold world and the
ugly creatures who ﬁght for its scraps.
I buried my wife in Lykos.
I took her down from the gallows and placed her remains
in the dirt of the garden we found together, knowing it
would be my death.
But that was the boy.
The man is broken, but he is not allowed to break. I blink
as the Senate hall erodes into a ﬂurry of light particles that
coalesce into the face of my enemy.
“Your work?”
She touches her chest. “Subcontractor. For the culprit, I
suggest you look a little closer to home. Even I couldn’t
poison the togas of that many senators. I wonder what they
used. Anyway, I call it the Day of Red Doves.” She frowns in
pity. “Poor little Sisyphus pushing that boulder uphill for so
long. It is beautiful in a way to see a man struggle against
natural law. To see what human will can accomplish. And
then to see your face now.” She shudders with pure

pleasure. “No betraying inﬂections. No microexpressions of
grief. Simply obduracy, despite the dread clawing at the
back of your eyes—a doomed army, a lost child, a dead
wife.” She wags a ﬁnger heavy with rings at me. “That is a
Peerless Scarred. How much more gravitas he has than all
the squabbling rats of demokracy.”
“I assume you will be broadcasting this to my army,” an
empty voice says from my mouth.
She shrugs as if to say it is out of her hands. “I would not
dare interrupt the demokratic process. Did not Virginia
once say that transparency is the heart of the thing? You
poor creature. All these years, you must have felt so
trapped. Knowing what needed to be done, but unable to do
it because of people weaker than you. If you had just
marched your legions into the Senate instead of chasing
after my father, you could have won this. Once you had the
power, you could have remade the world with your wife at
your side however you saw ﬁt, and put your son on the
throne. But that is the noble lie of demokracy, isn’t it? The
belief in humanity, even though humanity is a screaming,
selﬁsh mob. I love humans, truly. But humanity…” She
shivers. “I wanted, I needed to see your face as you
realized we were right all along. It is true beauty.”
Is my wife dead? If not dead, scheduled to die at the
hands of maniacs? Who leads them? Publius? It seems
impossible for Dancer to be dead. What then of my son?
What then am I? A creature so single-minded that he left
his wife and child to be torn apart by a mob? I convinced
myself my duty was here, and it would be selﬁsh to return
to Luna. I deluded myself into believing in the virtues of a
Republic that is nothing but a sham. Was that just an
excuse for me to carry on my bloody path?
“Virginia is not coming,” Atalantia says. Her voice is
harsh, done with its play. “Sevro is not coming. No one is
coming. Disarm your forces. Assemble your men south of

the city. Lower your shields. And submit to your fate with
dignity. If you do this, I will behead you and your high
command with proper ceremony. The rest of your men will
be spared and put to labor according to their nature in
rebuilding the planet you have left in tatters. If you commit
suicide, this oﬀer for your men is forfeit. If you reject my
oﬀer, I will drop atomics on Heliopolis and kill every man,
woman, child, and dog for two hundred kilometers. Even
the cockroaches won’t survive. This is the only mercy you
will receive.”
“Bluﬀ,” I say robotically.
“I beg your pardon?”
“Rhea was one thing. This is Heliopolis.”
“Heliopolis, Heliopolis, Heliopolis. It is a sty. A reliquary
for the past, no matter how much that traitor Glirastes
opines on its virtues. All I need is the metal in those
mountains, your life, and those of that Telemanus bitch and
that ugly Orange bastard.” She hesitates. “And that
beautiful Colloway of yours on a leash. As for Mercury.”
She makes a face. “And Mars? Helium can be mined in hell
for all I care. As long as my bathwater is warm, I’ll never
notice.”
The horror of an entire generation of Reds slaving in an
irradiated wasteland overwhelms me. Mutations. Death by
thirty. That cannot be how this ends.
“You are not a Sovereign,” I say ﬂatly. “You are just glue.
Glue that barely holds together the Two Hundred. If you
destroy Heliopolis, the Votum will decry you. How many of
those Two Hundred will wonder what you’ll do to their
cities? How would Julia au Bellona like you atomizing
Olympia? How would the Carthii feel about a mushroom
cloud over Harmonia?
“No,” I say with rising anger. “If you nuke us, you will be
deposed. But you need to leave. Don’t you? So desperately

you can feel it in your bones. The Republic is in turmoil,
you could drive a nail through it if you could just use your
ships. Yet they’re stuck here guarding me like two-bit
tinpots. Is it because I put the Minotaur on Venus? Is it
something else? Or maybe it’s just that no matter how
many strapping young Golds you send after me, all you get
back is piles of meat. You need us to surrender, because
you’re afraid of me, and even more afraid of becoming
Pyrrhus yourself.”
“Perhaps,” she says. “But it’s your bet.”
—
I replay the conversation between Atalantia and myself to
the oﬀicers of my high command. Screwface straddles the
balcony outside, his desert shades hiding his eyes. No aides
line the warroom, the coﬀee is forgotten at a side table.
The Day of Red Doves has streamed on every screen in
Heliopolis that has power. It is the only signal from beyond
our cage. They mock us from orbit. But this conversation is
what matters. The image dissolves, leaving darkness on the
faces of my commanders. Harnassus slumps in the chair to
my right. Thraxa stares at a ﬂy hovering over a vine by the
window. She has not spoken since she learned Daxo has
died. The news has rattled her in a way nothing else ever
has. What of her mother, her father, her sisters?
“Until now…” My voice betrays me. I clear my throat.
“Until now our strategy was based upon the belief that the
Republic was on its way. I do not believe it…practical to
continue in this assumption. I have reason to believe that
Publius is an agent of Atalantia’s. Or that the events that
took place in the Senate were the product of her designs.
The Vox Populi are compromised. I would caution you
against recognizing the authority of any element on Luna.”
I look at Harnassus, knowing Atalantia will likely beam him

a message from Publius and the surviving Senate
demanding surrender.
“We have been given an oﬀer with a twenty-four-hour
clock. An oﬀer that we have no reason to believe our enemy
would honor.” I pause, knowing what I am about to say is
true, but feeling a coward nonetheless. “I do not believe
that I can chart an unbiased course given the situation.” I
wave a hand as Thraxa and several others rise from their
seats in protest. “Just let me get this out.” Colloway and
Harnassus remain absolutely still. Of the two, I can’t tell
which looks worse, though the ripper pilot is certainly
drunk. I hear Screwface had to pull him from a brothel to
get him here. “An army is not a demokracy. But given our
situation, I do not believe it should be despotism.” I try to
look around the table, but ﬁnd it diﬀicult to meet their
eyes. I fell into Atalantia’s trap. I brought them here. I
sowed the seeds of my wife’s end, and the end of our
Republic. I may not have done it alone, but it hardly
matters. “Most of you have been with this army as long as I
have. It is your family as much as it is mine. You will decide
its fate. I will accept any decision you make. The only plea I
oﬀer is that you decide based on what is best for our men,
and then the Republic.”
With that, I leave Thraxa, Harnassus, Colloway,
Screwface, and the rest of the high command in the high
warroom to decide my fate and that of the Free Legions. I
walk along the lower balconies where night mist beads on
the stone walls. The waves crash all around the roots of the
building. Both were made by man. Perhaps at ﬁrst in hope,
to give our species a new home to live and to love. But in
time, I don’t know when, their creation became a vanity of
will, and in the shadow of that vanity, man grew lesser for
having more. Lesser for mastering the keys of creation,
because he mistook himself for god, and cared less for his
people, and more that his works endured.

Have I done the same?
With a great sucking sound, the black water pulls back to
reveal the work it has done to the roots of the stone after
all these years. And then the waves crash back. A
cavernous solitude makes a home in my chest, where once
there was only purpose that made far too little room for my
boy and my wife.
I return to my room and take Pax’s key from my luggage.
I wrap its chain around my neck and hold it as I stare at the
ceiling.

***Lysander“Are you awake or asleep, Lysander?”

I’m not in the desert.
I am at Lake Silene.
Snow clings to the evergreens. It makes the stones
slippery under my feet. My legs tremble as I haul myself up
the stairs that wind up the cliﬀ from the lake to the house. I
drop a stone the size of my abdomen atop a cairn. My
hands are bloody and shaking. It is the winter after my
parents died.
I look up to see the severe face of my grandmother.
I am terriﬁed of her, but desperate for her approval. Even
now, knowing what she did, the boy in the memory cannot
hate her. He is too afraid to hate.
I thought the week would be just for Aja and me. I never
get her to myself. Atalantia had taken Ajax to Echo City to
watch the water races. I thought Aja and I would take the
horses north, but Grandmother has come back from
Hyperion to continue my lessons.

She is inescapable.
“I asked you a question.”
“I am awake.”
“Are you? How many crows are in the trees that line the
steps?”
I look to Aja for help. She watches evenly from her perch
on a fallen log.
“Will you look to Aja every time you need saving?”
“I do not know how many crows there are.”
“You do not know?” I look down. “Never manifest shame
physically. Look at me.” There’s no anger in her face. There
never is. “How many owls are there? Hawks? Squirrels?”
“I don’t know, Grandmother.”
“Do you really think you’ve earned the right to use
contractions yet?” She leans forward. “Why do you not
know? I will answer, since your tongue is lead. Your mind
was asleep. Do you at least know how many steps there
are?”
“Four hundred thirty-one.”
“How many turns?”
“Seventeen.”
“Are you certain?”
“Yes, Grandmother.”
“Good. You know something at least. Pick up a rock.” I
obey. It weighs half as much as my body. “Close your eyes.
And run back down the steps.”
“Octavia…” Aja whispers.
“You have already spoilt your churlish spawn, Aja. Let us
not ruin the batch. Is something the matter, Lysander? You
said there are four hundred thirty-one steps. How many
times have you run them? A thousand? Ten? This should be
no diﬀiculty. Begin.”

I surge downward, knowing this I can do. I can impress
her. My steps are conﬁdent, even in the ice, even with the
weight. I see the steps burned into the backs of my eyelids.
I make it three hundred twenty-one steps before something
on the steps starts. There’s a ﬂutter of movement that slaps
into my face. I lose my balance. The weight of the stone is
unforgiving. It pulls me forward.
When I open my eyes, I am at the bottom of the steps.
The bone of my right arm is out of the skin. It looks
curiously pale. I begin to shudder. Aja is at my side, holding
me. My grandmother descends the steps.
“Aja.”
“His bones haven’t fully—”
“Aja.”
Aja lets me go and I lie in the snow staring up at my
grandmother.
“Stand up.” I struggle to my feet and look her in the eye.
“Why did you fall?” I cannot speak for the pain. “Recede
into your Mind’s Eye. Exist with the pain, then let it draw
your inner pupil to tighter focus.”
I do as she demands. The pain does not lessen, but it no
longer clouds. Its current pulls my mind narrower and
constricts my concentration to retrace the memory. Sure
enough, I ﬁnd the outlying variable. A slight crunch as I
descended the three hundred sixteenth step. Just before
the crows.
“You put feed on the steps for the crows,” I whisper.
“Good. But are you not in control of your own body? Why
did you let me dictate where you fell? If you were awake
you would have sensed the crows were not in the trees any
longer. You would have felt the seed underfoot, and
adjusted to the fresh variable.” She bends down. “You have
a brain like mine. That is why you are my heir. That is why I
have made you my son. But you must never let your mind

sleep. Your Mind’s Eye must rove without rest. Even as you
speak, eat, move, it is not enough for it to collect data, it
must digest it as a subfunction, or you will miss something
and become a slave to another.”
She kneels to look me eye to eye. “You are known.
Another will always seek to bridle you. With ﬁsts. With
kisses. With tricks.” She brushes snow from my shoulders,
and pain comes into her eyes. “The tragedy of the gifted is
the belief they are entitled to greatness, Lysander. As a
human, you are entitled only to death.” She stands. “Now,
are you awake or asleep?”
“Awake.”
“Prove it. Again.”
I walk suspended between the past and the hard reality
of the desert. There is pain. More than I thought possible.
The left half of my face is a ruin of melted meat. It is
swollen with ﬂuid that expands the skin to bursting. Pus
leaks through the bandage Kalindora helped me attach. My
left eye is blind and obliterated. Bits of melted metal have
hardened over much of the wound. Unable to see my
reﬂection, I can only imagine the horror.
All I can do is walk.
Foot after foot over the hardpan. There is no more water
left to share amongst our ragged band. While I could
survive nine days without it in a temperate climate, the
desert and my wound conspire to drain every drop.
I will not last long.
I cannot help but feel we are being followed. That
something watches from the desert.
It is hard to tell. More bands like ours wander the playa,
only to disappear behind veils of dust. It would not be good
to congregate with wayward infantry anyway. Supplies
dwindle. Weary bands trudge toward their imagined
salvation. But we are all just burnt shadows of war.

The killing ﬁeld was days ago, yet it stalks me like a
ghost through the days. Perhaps that is what I feel. The
sensation of destiny broken. The dread of the killing ﬁeld.
Two starShells pinning me down. Mutilated men and metal
carpeting the ground. The battle had moved on shortly
after I woke. Its sound echoed like distant thunder, and all I
could do was lie there as night came, listening to the
delirium of the dying.
When the sun dipped behind the mountains, the
nocturnal predators came to feast on the dead. Their eyes
glowed like coins as they fed. I could hear men wailing as
they were dragged into the night. Then came the human
scavengers down from the bleak mountains to sift through
the bodies and harvest electronics and weapons. Heads
covered in dust-colored cloth and silver goggles. A boy with
a welding torch came for my sigils. There was a ﬁreﬁght, I
remember. Then familiar faces.
I think it was Rhone and Kalindora who freed the ﬁrst of
us. The pain consumed me and makes it hard to remember.
But I know I was guided by Kalindora away from the
slaughter to where survivors exchanged water from their
suit caches and bandaged wounds. Rhone said he would
come back for us once they freed more Praetorians from
their suits.
He never did.
We hid in the foothills, leeched of bravery as Rising
soldiers landed in force. We were too weak to contest them.
So we watched as they gathered up Rhone and our
comrades and herded them onto shuttles at gunpoint. They
headed south, to Heliopolis, I imagine.
So Ajax lost.
I can feel no satisfaction in that. How many men died for
Atalantia’s avarice? For Ajax’s glory? For Darrow’s victory?

For days we have walked, striking north in hopes of
ﬁnding Society patrols. We were thirty at the start. Then
seventy as elements of Ajax’s shattered legions caught up
with us before their boots or bikes died. On the second day,
Cicero and four of his Golds found us camped in a ravine.
They joined us without comment, all but guns and water
satchels discarded. Though later we learned that Ajax ﬂed
the battle when the tide turned, and few of his men
escaped.
The Scorpion Obsidians die ﬁrst from the heat. Then
many of the Grays, including my Praetorians. Only the
hardiest amongst them stagger with us now. We have little
water to share.
Seven Golds remain, including Kalindora and Cicero. To
the west, the mountain peaks ride the waves of the heatwarped horizon. To the east, the waste stretches as if it
were all that existed. War machines move beyond the
irradiated clouds.
Desiccated tanks from Darrow’s surprise retreat across
the Ladon stand blackened in the distance, victims of lucky
hits by naval guns through the mess of the electrical storm.
How Darrow slipped the noose is beyond understanding. Or
it would be if the Golds fought as an army instead of as a
collective of greedy autarchs.
We did this to ourselves. And our men, my Praetorians,
millions of civilians and loyal legionnaires paid the price.
Umbra visit us as we walk. White chalk twisters that spin
ninety meters high. They cake us with chalk and coat our
lungs with a thin white ﬁlm that comes out in clumps when
we cough.
A fever has gripped me since I was pulled from the
killing ﬁeld. Reveries come and go. I see my father and
grandmother often. Sometimes there is a chair. Great and
silver and carved with eccentric faces. I have never seen it
before. And there is a white door that appears always on

the horizon, accompanied by the sound of cicadas and the
crashing of waves.
I have seen it before in my dreams.
Sometimes I reach it.
It swings open to reveal nothing but shadow. And then it
is on the horizon again.
I stumble often on the unstable sand and chalk, but
Kalindora steadies me. She cauterized her left arm just
beneath the shoulder where Darrow’s blade hacked it oﬀ.
Still, she is the source of our momentum, the quiet,
optimistic heart of our desperate push toward Erebos. We
will not make it, I think. With the interference from the
storm disrupting our trackers, our best hope is a chance
encounter with Society forces. If any still remain.
In late afternoon, we discover the remains of a stork
crashed into the sand. We harvest it for supplies, and
gather around to see if its coms are working. They are not.
But at least we have water and rations. Kalindora declares
it our camp for the night. Five Praetorian Grays and seven
Golds hunker between the boulders to wait for the sun to
depart.
Soon after nightfall we hear ships in the sky.
“They can’t see us,” Cicero says from the nest he’s made
in the dirt. Of all the survivors, he seems the only one to
retain any of his humor.
“Thirty million soldiers fought in that battle,” Kalindora
says. “Even if they could, you try picking up all those
pieces.”
“But we are the scions of ancient houses,” Cicero
protests. “The very desert should lift us to salvation. I tell
you. When I saw the Morning Star emerge from the storm,
I thought I’d take any form of possible future as grace. But
between the heat, the sun, this blasted sand, the
nightcrawlers, and Rising hunting parties, I have the

sneaking suspicion that we are going to die in the most
worthless fashion.”
“Pulvis et umbra sumus,” I reply.
“That was a Raa, wasn’t it?” Cicero asks. “The one who
tried to dance with the rail slug?” I nod. “I swear, those
fuckers quote themselves almost as much as the
Augustans. Here be lions indeed. What I’d give for a nice
lion hunt right now. Sherry by the ﬁre on the savanna as a
nice ﬂank of meat bubbles over the ﬁre.”
“You eat lion?” I mumble, though the act of speaking
makes my face feel as though it will fall oﬀ. “Isn’t it—”
“Stringy? Oh indeed, it’s more about the aesthetic and
political innuendo really. Actually, I have a tale! You lot look
like you could use one.” He rubs his hands together. He
always did love the limelight. “Father let me join when he
took old Nero au Augustus himself for a hunt once—my, but
that man was mad. Refused to eat anything he didn’t kill
with a razor. He was fast, though, almost caught a white
gazelle at a watering hole. Two more strides and he would
have had him in the sprint.”
“No one can catch a desert gazelle. I don’t care how
ancient one’s genes are,” Kalindora says. “The Augustans
were no faster than anyone else.”
Cicero pauses, cocking his head toward the desert as if
he heard something. With a shake of his curled hair, he
returns to his story, frowning when a clump of it falls out.
“That’s what Father told old Telemanus. But Kavax just told
him to watch. You know what Nero did when the gazelle
escaped? He kept running, even when it had him by two
kilometers. He was gone the whole night. And then he
came back with it on his shoulders while the Browns were
laying out breakfast the next morning. All covered in cuts
and dirt. I’ll remember what he said till the day I’m shot
into the sun.” He takes on a very obnoxious rendition of

Augustus’s Martian timbre. “Beasts must stop for water. I
carry mine.”
Kalindora belts out a laugh that startles one of the
sleeping Grays. “That’s a load of shit.”
Cicero looks direly oﬀended. “How dare you impugn my
honor. As sure as Heliopolis is the second most beautiful
city in the worlds, Tyche being the ﬁrst, of course.”
Kalindora snorts. “More like Elysium. No arguments for
Hyperion, Lysander?”
I shrug.
“Elysium is as cold as a logos’s groin,” Cicero crows.
“And he said what he said, ‘I carry mine.’ What a man,
Nero. But that’s not the best part. Father doesn’t like to be
the small man on his own planet. So the next day, he shot
himself one of those big Nemean lions and tried serving it
up to Augustus at dinner.”
“I imagine that went well,” Kalindora says.
“Surprising fact about Nero,” Cicero says with a wag of
the ﬁnger. “Vast sense of humor.”
“Like you knew him.”
“I did. And I watched as he ate without complaint and
even asked for seconds. Old Kavax was sitting there all
quiet-like, though. You could tell he was nervous. And then
a month later, after the trade talks were complete and we
all felt a little slutty about making Augustus richer than
Jove, he sends this young man. A lancer. One of those
Martian war machines. You know the type, Kalindora. The
sort that made sure you were no spring ﬂower by the time
you got to Luna. Killing in their veins. Huge. Not the
biggest man I’d ever seen, mind you, that was Magnus’s
slaveknight—Pale Horse or whatever his name was—but his
anger was like heat oﬀ a tank barrel. His manners were
ﬂawless, for an upstart, still you could hear that Martian
war-drum heart beating along with Nero’s silent boast.

Look at my fresh crop. I have more of these. In his hands,
that big killer carried the most delicate, beautiful box.
Carved ivory with lions in all sorts of dramatic poses.
‘Compliments of Mars,’ breathed the man and away he
went back to a gorydamn destroyer with helium to burn.”
“What was in the box?” Kalindora asks. “A head?”
“Grapes. Only grapes. And a little note. ‘Work in
progress.’ Father went white as the box and didn’t sleep for
a week. Mother had to buy ﬁve new Stained and a whole
new ﬂeet of courtesans before Father would even use his
harem again.”
Kalindora grins down at her ration bar wrapper. “Now,
that is cold.”
“None colder than old Nero,” Cicero replies. “Want to
hear the best part? Guess who the lancer was?”
“Darrow,” I rasp through my tattered lips.
“That’s right,” Cicero says with a squint. “We had him
here. I think it was sixteen years ago. Just after the
Institute. One of his ﬁrst missions. Seventeen, a lackey to a
god, and ticking, ticking, like a time bomb.”
Later, after Kalindora has gone to sleep, Cicero slides
over to me. “So much for Atalantia’s bagwoman.” In the
darkness, Kalindora looks less like a warrior. Peaceful in a
way, as peaceful as a woman with a cauterized stump for a
left arm can look while suﬀering radiation sickness. Maybe
it was foolish to meet the Reaper in open battle. But I
cannot erase the pride I felt when she nodded to me at my
decision to stay. Still, how many Praetorians lie in the dust
for that valor? How many men and women drowned in the
sea? Cicero eyes the rancid stump where her left arm used
to be. “Think she’ll die of infection?”
“Not before rad poisoning,” I say. “Or thirst.”
He eyes the soiled bandage on my face. “How much does
it hurt?”

“Enough.”
“You knew that story,” he says. “How?”
“You mean how did I know about the Storm Gods?” I
reply, intuiting his real question. “Nero had his helium. You
have your metals. Octavia had her information.”
“Information, yes. Speaking of information…” His voice
lowers. “I’ve some information an erudite mind like yours
has no doubt already deduced. Based on our water
requirements, and our likely rate of consumption, we’ll run
out several days from Erebos. We don’t have enough to get
all of us there. The Grays will have a trial in this next
stretch. It’s straight desert for several hundred klicks. If a
patrol doesn’t ﬁnd us, or we don’t get lucky with
civilians…”
“No,” I say.
“You couldn’t stop me. You can barely walk,” he says
ﬂatly.
“If that’s the man you want to be, go on then,” I say, with
every intention of killing him in the night if I suspect he
intends to kill my Grays.
“You think I want to do it for myself? You think I’m that
venal? I’m not a Venusian or a Lunese sucking others dry,”
he says in disgust. “We Votum are builders. You don’t know
me at all. What I’ve had to watch.” I don’t say anything to
that. “Darrow might have broken our planet, but Atalantia
and her father have been raping it for years to feed their
war. It’s a lonely feeling when you realize your father,
despite his many triumphs, is an invertebrate. I’ll tell you
that. My brother and sister stood up to Atalantia, but they
were at Tyche. And that storm…” He looks north and
doesn’t ﬁnish the sentence. “Father can’t handle her on his
own.”
“What do you want from me?” I ask. “Permission to
abandon good men? You won’t have that.”

“You abandoned yours,” he says. “Watched them ﬂy right
away to Heliopolis. Including Rhone ti Flavinius himself. So
who are you angry at, me or yourself?”
He’s right, and he knows it. Still, it’s the principle. And if
I give up that, I’ll have nothing left. “I might not be able to
stop you. But if you go for the Grays, you’ll have to kill me
too.”
He mutters something to himself as he edges away to
ﬁnd a place amongst the rocks. Soon he is fast asleep.
Kalindora opens her eyes. She’s been listening.
“I’ll take watch,” she whispers. “Try and get some sleep.”

***DarrowI’m woken in the early morning by a presence. A lean man

moves through my room. He stands by the edge of the bed
with his hands hidden. But I no longer sleep in beds, not
even here in the center of my army. From the bathroom,
upon the thin campaign mattress, I watch with my hand
clutched around a pistol. How did he get past the guards? I
aim for the base of his skull. A sliver of light from a passing
ship illuminates his face as he turns. It is Screwface.
I clear my throat and he turns, jumping a little as he sees
the gun.
“What is it?”
“I want to show you something, boss.”
I’ve nearly died that way before. When Cassius took me
down to the river to stab me, and Lea led me into Antonia’s
trap at the Institute.
“Just tell me here,” I say.
“Oh, come on. Who do you trust, if you don’t trust old
Screw?” He has been with me since the beginning. Never

asking for anything. Never earning fame like Sevro, or
family like Pebble and Clown. He is maybe the most like
me. A creature of war. It looks lighter on him. He extends a
hand down to help me up. With a weary nod, I take it.
My friend leads me by the pale light of a lamp through
the pale stone halls of the Mound. Maritime wind lolls
through the open windows, carrying the tang of brine and
the murmurs of seagulls. It creeps past the guards of the
night watch, stirring their cloaks, to kiss the bald, weary
soldiers who cough ﬂecks of blood under the gaze of Votum
portraits in the grand ballrooms, libraries, and pillaged
galleries of a more decadent age.
We go out the back of the palace. Descending down the
switchbacking sea cliﬀ stairs that connect with the ancient
seawall. The sky pales to a dull chrome in anticipation of
sunrise, but the bay beneath remembers the darkness of
night. Its high tide crashes against a coral scarp at the base
of the seawall. And with a backrush, the tide reveals a
second world of wildlife. Coral crabs and sealarks skitter
and dodge the gulls and ﬁre eagles that swoop through the
spray to feed.
We pass Red Rat legionnaires sharing coﬀee at the base
of particle cannons. While the rest of the army withers from
radiation poisoning, only my Reds soldier on. In the
absence of Pegasus Legion, Rat Legion has become the
spine of the army. They nod to us and return to their coﬀee.
Soon we pass lines of coughing Mercurians ﬁshing oﬀ the
side of the seawall, then descend the wall’s interior stairs
and exit through a gate that leads out beyond the wall to a
barrier beach running parallel to the shore.
A congregation of two parts gathers in the gloom. Men
and women wet from the sea make the ﬁrst. They are
jubilant. An aching song drifts from them, a Red one I
remember hearing as a child. But it is not just Reds who
sing it; other Colors are scattered through their ranks. The

second and more numerous group by far is a long line of
hunched, bitter creatures who wait in silence. One by one
they slump out to a man who stands waist-deep in the surf.
He whispers something to them. They clutch their ﬁsts out
before them and shout as they are dunked into the sea.
Many are blind. All are already so sick with radiation, they
don’t fear the seawater.
It seems I have entered a dream, and it cracks as I am
seen. The song fades. And they turn warily to watch me.
Even the blind know I am here. I feel ashamed to have
intruded on this private moment. They are Martians all.
The dirt so many of them brought in canisters from home is
clutched in their hands. They followed me here, but I do not
feel like one of them any longer. These arms and legs that
have stripped lives from so many seem all the heavier and
more alien here. This height given to me by a mad carver
seems like a monstrous feature I wish I could hide and be
rid of so that I could stand amongst them, part of them, a
man of mines, following someone else.
I salute them and retreat across the sand.
Screwface catches up to me. “What was that?” I snap at
him.
“I thought—”
“That I wanted to have a holy communion? You think
those men need to see their Imperator begging for
forgiveness?”
“Nah, but I thought maybe you needed it.”
“What I need is to be left alone.”
He doesn’t leave me alone, and I don’t want to go back to
the Mound and face the decision of the high command or
be burdened with more endless complaints and problems. I
don’t want to sit in my room and think about my son and
wife. So I strike south along the beach, leaving the penitent

behind, wishing I could join them, but knowing a leader
cannot.
It would be immoral to rob them of that last bit of
conﬁdence they have left in me.
In time, I begin to forget where I am as I walk. Screwface
follows behind at a distance. The ocean sighs against the
shore. Sand crabs skitter along the waterline, navigating
mounds of kelp populated with sea ﬂeas. I walk until we
reach a climate seam. Soon, low-altitude Agathis trees
sway along the shoreline. Migratory Nymph trees wade in
the water on legs of white and pink roots. Jungle
archipelagos dapple the horizon, the nearest home to a
Free Legion defense gun. Local birds perch atop its metal
barrel.
The topography reminds me of South Paciﬁca, where
outside his ancestral estate Daxo taught my son to build a
sandcastle. He spent more time with Pax that day than I
did, taking him into the woods with the huntmasters,
walking through his statue garden to listen to birds and see
if he could name them, and back to the beach to see their
mighty sandcastle washed away by the night tide. All while
I sat inside preparing the invasion of Grimmus-held Africa.
How sad I didn’t cherish a moment there with my son.
All moments are like that sandcastle, it seems.
There is no permanent happy future. There is no Vale.
It all washes away.
The shield ﬂickers overhead. I glance back at Screwface
with a frown. Barefoot, he jogs up holding his boots.
“Friendlies?”
I see them now through the clouds. Streaks of falling ﬁre.
The shield ripples back on, killing birds in its energy arc,
but now the falling projectiles are inside it. My ﬁrst thought
is that we’ve been betrayed. But the projectiles slow over
the sea. The air around them distorts from gravitational

ﬁelds. Water ﬂoats upward along with ﬁsh and a long ebony
squid before crashing back down.
Nearly forty six-story obelisks stand end-on-end oﬀshore.
The water boils around them as they cool.
“What are they?” Screwface asks.
“That looks like Sun Industries stealth hull,” I say.
He gives me a bored look and raises an eyebrow. “What
say we do a little reconnaissance, boss?”
“We should wait for reinforcements.”
“Some badass you are.” He strips oﬀ his shirt and pants
and runs to the water. “Where’s your sense of adventure!”
He dives into a wave.
“Ah, shit.” I strip oﬀ my shirt and follow him in. The sea
is warm as bathwater. Flash-cooked ﬁsh ﬂoat around the
obelisks, killed when the obelisks transferred their heat
into the sea. I dive down and ﬁnd the bottom of an obelisk
thoroughly embedded in the seaﬂoor. By the time I surface,
Screwface is already climbing up the slippery hull along a
line of rivets. I follow. There seems to be a hatch at the top.
“Ah, the cavalry,” Screwface mocks a minute later as a
line of shuttles swoop our way from Heliopolis. There’s men
onshore waving to us from beside their gravBikes. They
seem to be celebrating. My ﬁngers ache from supporting
my body weight with their tips. Screw shows oﬀ by hanging
on to the rivets with two ﬁngers and leaning oﬀ to wave to
the men. He glares at the shuttles.
“Going to let the airheads take your glory?” I ask.
He scoﬀs and hoists himself up another meter. By the
time we make it to the top, a shuttle has sped ahead of the
rest. They race us to hover over the hatch of a nearby
obelisk. Screwface makes it to the top ﬁrst. Me a second
later, ﬁngers aching like hell.
Screwface beats his chest and howls just before the
shuttle makes it to the top of the closest obelisk. Through

the viewport, I catch sight of Char giving us the crux.
“Infantry!” Screwface bellows. The men on the shore
echo the call and join his howl. He slaps at me to do the
same. I turn my attention to the hatch. It is painted with
the Republic star.
Soon the deserted patch of coast swarms with engineers.
Heavy hauler shuttles drag the obelisks to shore after the
bomb squad inspection. I wait with Screwface and
hundreds of perimeter guards and dockworkers as they
open the ﬁrst obelisk. It parts down the middle, revealing a
superstructure of pods. They crack the ﬁrst one open. It is
ﬁlled with thousands of duroglass cylinders.
I stumble forward and fall to my knees before a mound of
the cylinders. Each is stamped with a silver winged heel.
Each is ﬁlled with enough radiation meds to last a man a
month, and there are thousands of pods, thirty-eight
obelisks. Each cylinder will become a life saved from
radiation. I run my ﬁngers over them in a state of grace.
Screwface collapses to his haunches beside me; he opens a
pod and ﬁnds it ﬁlled with food, medicine, and materiel. He
falls backward onto the sand, rolling around until he looks
like a sugar-covered pastry.
I sit in shade as the rest of the boxes are unpacked and
ferried back to Heliopolis. Inside one of the obelisks, they
found a message for me. I rub the datadrop between my
ﬁngers, and activate it.
“ ’Lo, husband,” my wife says with a gentle smile. I pause
it. Her face ﬂoats in my palms. I hold it there for a minute,
cherishing the words on her lips, the absence of any other
thought but me on her mind. The wind makes the palm
fronds overhead swish like the skirts of Red girls at
Laureltide.
Reluctantly, I resume the message, and the strain of the
worlds ﬂoods my wife’s face. I see the weight and worry
behind the eyes—for our son, for me, for her Republic. Her

battle may be diﬀerent from mine, but it is battle all the
same, and she is tired.
“I must be brief. These pods were launched with the new
guns. It wasn’t the intended method of delivery, but eﬀorts
to send ships have…stalled. There are games afoot on
Hyperion and beyond. Victra has quit Luna for Mars. Sevro
has been chewing his way through the Syndicate here, and
meddling with my own designs, as per custom. Seﬁ has
disappeared, with machinations for the mines of Cimmeria.
Though I no longer believe she is the Queen of the
Syndicate, she has the children. I believe Pax is safe in her
custody and will be ransomed back to Victra for her aid in
Seﬁ’s acquisition of the mines.”
Relief ﬂoods through me. Despite the bedlam of Luna, my
boy might have escaped it. He is not with enemies. Pax will
be safe. Valdir would die before he let Seﬁ touch a hair on
his head.
“An unseen hand moves the pieces, a clever one by any
measure—Atalantia? Atlas? I presume so. My theories are
attached. I believe I am beginning to divine the pattern,
and soon I will make my move. I have included my ﬁles in
case they aid your situation. Also included are the
intelligence reports of the System’s current standing. They
will be two weeks old, so use them wisely.
“I believe your victory has given me the momentum to
swing the Senate. Five days from the time this message
was recorded, we will have voted and the ﬂeet will either
be under way when you receive this or it will not. But no
matter what the Senate decides, at midnight on the ﬁrst of
May, I will come to Mercury. If fortune favors, it will be as a
Sovereign. If not, it will be as a wife.”
She pauses. Her voice softens, and she becomes my wife
again.
“I know you are weary. I know you think Mercury will be
your grave. That the Republic has abandoned you, and that

the weight of what you have done threatens to eat a hole in
you. But for me, for your son, I beg you not to despair. Our
crusade was not founded on the success of our arms but in
the righteousness of our cause, and our belief in our fellow
man. So believe in your men. Believe in our Republic.” She
smiles self-consciously. “Believe in me and in yourself.
“You know I believe we all begin equal parts light and
dark. I fear you think your strength lies in your darkness.
But the measure of a man is not the fear he sows in his
enemies. It is the hope he gives his friends. I could no more
ask Pax to stop tinkering with my datapad than I could ask
you to change who you are. I know that. I only ask that you
remember what you mean to me, to your people, to your
son. You have not been abandoned. I will come for you.
Sevro will come for you. The Republic will come for you.
Until then: endure, my love. Endure.”
—
“Do you remember that spring on Earth in Paciﬁca?” I ask
Thraxa as she walks me down the hall to the warroom. The
high command has decided on a reply to Atalantia’s oﬀer.
“Daxo taught my son to build castles in the sand. Pax cried
when the waves came in. Your brother sat him on his knee
and told him that’s all life is. Moments you build only to see
washed away. But that doesn’t mean it’s all for nothing.” I
stop at the door and tap my temple like Daxo tapped Pax’s.
“The key is having a long memory for the sweet, and a
short one for the bitter. I will miss your brother, Thraxa.
But he isn’t gone.”
She nods but does not smile. “You might be the only
person from whom that sentiment doesn’t sound cheap. But
if they killed Niobe or Kavax, I will personally drown Luna
in blood.”
She opens the door and goes in.

Harnassus sits at the head of the warroom table in my
chair. The rest of the high command ﬁll either side of the
table. I stand before them. “Right then, what’s what?”
“Darrow, I apologize that it took us so long to come to a
decision,” Harnassus says. “But given its gravity, we
wanted to give it due respect.” He turns his attention to the
oﬀicers. “You all know I am a proud member of the Vox
Populi and even prouder to have called Dancer O’Faran my
friend. In his name, First Citizen Publius cu Caraval and the
Senate have ordered me to seize command of the army,
arrest Darrow as an enemy of the people, and surrender to
the enemy, using the terms Atalantia and our Senate have
agreed upon.” The oﬀicers sit without expression. “In
reﬂection of this body’s consensus, I have sent a reply to
Atalantia regarding her terms of surrender: ‘Bloodydamn.’ ”
“Bloodydamn?” I ask. They begin to smile
A sucking sound comes from the heart of the sky. I rush
to the terrace as several panes of the shield chain
protecting the peninsula and the city disappear. A half
breath later, the world is swallowed in light. There is a
great roar. I’m blind for half a minute. When my vision
returns, the afterimage ghosts of particle beams throb, and
the distant guns on the mountains over the city glow like
embers. In orbit, one of Atalantia’s dreadnoughts burns.
Her retaliation falls just as the shields go back up.
I walk back inside as the room vibrates with manmade
thunder.
“Bloodydamn, and a full barrage from our particle
cannons.” Harnassus leans back and grins. “I believe it is a
well-measured reply that leaves little ambiguity for her
deviant brain to conjure.”
He turns his eyes to the oﬀicers and cracks his knuckles
one by one. “It’s been a long war. I’ve seen things that I’ll
never scour from my memory banks, but never have I seen

such a travesty as that farce on Luna.” He leans forward,
true menace in his voice. “My friends, our system of
governance has been hijacked. Our heroes murdered. Our
Sovereign taken captive.” His lips curl back from his teeth.
“That will not stand with me. We are in an alien,
inhospitable land. We must get home before there is no
home left.”
He rises from my chair and walks across the room to
stand close to me as if in challenge. He points to the chair.
“That is a chair I cannot ﬁll. I will not ﬁll. Every man and
woman in this army volunteered to ﬁght with the
understanding that they would be led by the Reaper of
Mars. Behind him, we liberated our homes. Behind him, we
found our way from the desert. He will deliver us from this
planet. And he will take us home, where we will ﬁx this
madness and string Caraval up by his ears.” He tilts his
chin upward. “Even if he does not, I would rather follow
him to the Vale than abandon him and live to a hundred and
ﬁfty.”
“Fuck the Vox,” Colloway calls from his chair. “Hail
Reaper.”
The oﬀicers echo the call.
I walk to the chair without a word. I pause before it. It is
an ornate Votum treasure carved with birds and trees. I did
not notice before, when it meant nothing to me. I sit down
in it, and the arms of it embrace me. For a moment, I
imagine they are the arms of my wife and son. I close my
eyes and think of them. I believe they are alive. I believe I
will return to them. And if not, on the road to home is
where I will die. I grip Pax’s key on its chain. When my eyes
open, my oﬀicers are waiting for a miracle. This is my
family too. Colloway, Screwface, Harnassus, Thraxa,
Rhonna. We have given Mercury Alexandar, Orion,
Tongueless, Felix, Marbles, and so many more. I am done
with sacriﬁce. I will get my family home. I will endure.

“Summon the Master Maker Glirastes.”

***LyriaI lie on the cold floor, starving myself to death.

When last did I dance? When ever did my brothers spin
me between them till I tumbled to the dirt and watched
their pale legs move beneath a horizon of skirts and
ribbons? Was the rhythm of life really once made by
dancing drums and shift-calls and boots rattling as Gamma
miners came home to the squealing of kettles?
Or was that all a dream?
They said we were slaves. And we were, I reckon. I ain’t
so dumb or so lonely to forget that forty years once marked
a man as old, or the radiation tumors that’d make a child’s
belly swell. But that world at least made sense, before we
were told it didn’t.
It had rhythm I felt. It had family I loved. We had purpose
I understood. Now that world’s gone. Not just for me. For
everyone.
But there was no purpose to the assimilation camp,
where my family was hacked to pieces by the Red Hand.

There was no family in Hyperion. Save Liam. And no
rhythm in this prison chamber where I lie victim to sound
and light.
Light spasms in the center of my prison. The light
combusts with the violence of deepmine gas, only to melt
into thin red ribbons like the ones sweethearts would tie on
the sleeves of Lagalos gallants for the Laureltide dance.
Noise pumps through the walls to torture me. Not music,
but human screams that morph and stretch and scrape like
teeth along ragged rock. Deafening percussion makes my
eardrums crackle. I’d cover them but then I can’t cover my
eyes, and even when I cover my eyes, the light ﬂares so
bright I can see the bones in my hands. They look like the
veins of a leaf.
What I’d do to hear a leaf whisper in the wind again.
Sometimes when all those bodies crammed into my
family’s shack grated on my nerves, I’d go sit at the edge of
the jungle and listen to it speak.
Since that bitch of a Brown plunged the syringe into my
neck, I’ve heard nothing of jungles or the wind. Last thing I
remember was the warm water of the shower falling on my
tummy. The cold of the stone against my back. When
darkness came, I felt I’d slipped back into my mother’s
womb. I dreamt of her, and my sister. Then I woke to the
cold of my chamber, a headache pulsing behind the left eye,
and bile crusted on my lips.
How long ago was that again?
A week?
A month?
Five?
Of my family, only Liam survives. I hold out hope for his
father, Varon, my sister’s husband. And for my brothers:
cherished Aengus, and even brooding, angry Dagan. But all

three are at the front. Who knows if they have gone on to
the Vale, if Liam has.
I wish I could dream of them as I did my mother and
sister. But dreams are scarce now. Fragments of sleep
crumble through my ﬁngers, shaken away by the noise, the
light. Even if I do manage to doze oﬀ, the gravity inverts,
wrenching my guts as the ceiling becomes the ﬂoor and I
collide hard enough with the metal to scare me.
The room is cold, glossy black, ten long paces by ten.
There is no bed, only nodules that retract to reveal a tube
for my piss. You gotta really seal your squat to the ﬂoor or
the room will stink something ﬁerce. It’s worse for shit. If I
miss, I gotta scoop it up and push it in with my ﬁngers or
ﬁnd myself falling into it the next time I doze.
I’ve given up shouting through the food delivery nodule.
No one is listening. At ﬁrst I thought the Julii cow might
want something from me. But she doesn’t. This is revenge.
Took her ﬁrst and only visit to drive that through my skull.
A rectangle of light carved the darkness and then she
was inside the room staring down at me. Time was, I would
have thought her a god. Some warrior maiden pulled from
my pa’s savage tales. But there’s no romance to her, to
them any longer. Her Gold rage seemed petty. Her glamour
vile in the face of the poverty I’ve seen in my family’s
assimilation camp on Mars and in Hyperion.
Still, I told her all I knew, thinking she would be rational.
All I told the Sovereign. She said nothing, and it was then I
knew the deepspine truth: she doesn’t care two licks ’bout
what I know. Only when I crawled to her on my hands and
knees and begged her to let me out to see Liam did she
ﬁnally part those rich lips.
“I want to be forthright and say I visually enjoy your
degradation.” The words seemed to boil, as if drawn up
from a black cauldron deep in her belly. “I am aware you
are not a member of the Red Hand, nor are you a Gorgon

operator. However, stupidity is not a crime without victims.
Seeing as how you have deprived me of my daughter, my
nephew, whom I love like my own bone and blood, it can
only be reckoned fair if I deprive you of something: your
‘sanity.’ Consider it a mercy that I left that blind child out of
this. Would that you had the same decency.”
I choked on sobs knowing Liam was safe somewhere
beyond this room. Pathetically, I thought to beseech her.
“I didn’t mean for this…”
“I didn’t mean,” she mocked, making her lips quiver like
mine. Her eyes ﬂashed as my hand touched her spiked
boots. “You carried unauthorized, alien hardware onto a
governmental shuttle, despite attending multiple security
brieﬁngs instructing you against such indiscretion. You are
either sinister, careless, or a gibbering idiot. Embrace the
consequences of your actions, young lady. In the end, you
may not have your freedom, but perhaps you’ll ﬁnd your
dignity. A true woman needs little else.”
Then the light swallowed the Gold right back up.
I raced for the shrinking door, but it just disappeared into
the wall. I beat at it with my ﬁsts and screamed till knuckle
bone peeked out my skin.
I knew it would never open again.
I wept and curled around my hands and licked my aching
knuckles like a sad dog. I hated that woman. I hated her so
much, but deep down I knew I’d do anything for her to ﬁll
the room again. To see another person once more…
When my bladder grew tight, I just pissed where I lay. I
no longer even tilted my head to look as the food slot
opened. What was the point? Everyone knows there’s
nothing worse than a Julii scorned.
I decayed. I am decaying.
How long since I’ve eaten?
Are there really butterﬂies in the room?

I remember the mad look in Dagan’s eyes when Pa found
him three days lost in the deepmines. He swore he saw
demons. He was never the same again. His kind heart
replaced by a sour doppelgänger’s.
Am I going mad like he did? I must be.
Demons visit me as my body wastes away, specters made
from the light of the place. The scarred woman of the Red
Hand who shot my brother’s head oﬀ. The liar, Ephraim,
who saw I was broken, and put me back together only so he
could use me. His Obsidian henchwoman who shot Kavax.
That Brown bitch with the needle. The lean, sweaty boymen who cut my family and clan to pieces with curved iron,
and gnawed the innocence out of a hundred Gamma girls.
They mock me in the chaos of light.
But they also bring their victims. Those I love, my
brothers, my family, little blind Liam, Kavax who took us
from the mud and brought us to Luna, who alone could
make Liam’s face shine when his mother lay in the dirt.
What did I ever do to protect them? What did I ever do to
save them?
All I did was run or hide.
As the light spasms above me and my body grows light
with exhaustion, I sense a calm clarity that turns my life
into a tapestry. A story told by someone else.
Here’s little Lyria. She watched herself be freed. She
watched herself put in a camp. Others watched her
complain. She watched her family die. She watched big bad
Hyperion chew her up and spit her out. She watched as she
decayed in her cell.
Is that all I am? A watcher? A victim?
Disgust seeps up through the cracks in the bottom of my
heart.
How many times did I blame the Reaper? How many
times did I roll my eyes when Red legionnaires would visit

our camp and spin those yarns of Darrow and the
Vanguard. Darrow and the undead Goblin. Darrow, the Julii,
and Valkyrie at Ilium. Darrow and the Jackal and the Two
Hundred Seventy Days our messiah spent in the monster’s
table.
“The Second Birth, they call it, lass,” the young Red
legionnaire said, swiveling on the water drum when he saw
I wasn’t swallowing the hook like my brothers. His hand
touched his chest as he looked around, his voice barely a
whisper. “From Mars to Mercury, all know that’s when he
became the Reaper. When the man became something
more. I’ve seen him in the ﬂesh. At Echo City. He’s got
something in him, I’ll tell you that. Something like thunder
in a bottle.” He waved his hands at the potential recruits,
his voice rising. “And that’s in all of us. Each clanfolk with
Red in their eyes. Lambda to Gamma. We may not be big.
No. We may not be rich. But we got what he got. Wrath.
Seven hundred years of it thundering in our veins.”
Forty-ﬁve lined up to give their lives to the Free Legions
that day, including two of my brothers. They were just a lot
of fools worshipping some jumped-up Helldiver with a Gold
wife and a Gold spawn. He wasn’t one of us any longer. I
blamed him for taking my brothers, for leaving us mired in
the camp, for all that’d gone wrong. But one person
couldn’t do all that. He freed us, and then we stayed in the
camp and waited for him to do all the rest.
Waiting. Waiting.
Waiting while the tales that made us big began to make
us feel small, because we didn’t make the choice like those
brave boys and girls did.
We didn’t choose to ﬁght.
Well, fuck me if I’m gonna wait any longer. Survival is my
ﬁght.

When the synth food shoots through the tube some hours
later, I make a choice. My body is weak, my pants crusted
with my own ﬁlth as I crawl. But I make it there and I
choke down the tasteless ﬁber cubes and protein and wash
them down with water from the tube. When food comes
again, I jam it down. Soon the hallucinations disappear. The
dread loneliness grows smaller, dwarfed by the anger at my
own eagerness to surrender.
Despair robbed me my mind. With my despair numbed, I
ﬁnd a way to sleep by tearing a strip of cloth from my
jumpsuit and tying myself to the vent duct when gravity
makes it the ﬂoor. Soon as I doze oﬀ, the ﬂoor becomes the
ceiling again, and I hang there like a deepmine bat, bits of
jumpsuit shoved in my ears and wearing a blindfold
fashioned from my pant leg.
Sleep is the Vale itself. I eat again. I sleep. I eat. I sleep. I
grow bored and make the dancing lights my playmate,
racing to touch the tips of the light as it morphs and
expands. It reacts to my touch, turning crimson or purple.
There’s pattern to it, a code maybe, but I just can’t crack it.
One day or night or afternoon, I fasten myself to the duct
to sleep again, and notice a rolled ball of cloth in the vent.
Making a little hook with a piece of rubber gnawed oﬀ from
my prisoner slippers, I hook the cloth and draw it toward
me.
The light illuminates brown letters in a blocky, ﬂaking
print. It is a message written in blood.
“My name is Volga. I am a prisoner. I do not know for
how long. Am I alone?”
I stare down at the piece of cloth as if it were a message
from an alien race. A weird numbness prickles across my
face. The same numbness I felt when Vanna of Omicron spit
in my eye and called my pa a tinsucker when I was eight.
Pure rage.

Volga was the name of Ephraim’s Obsidian. The
Hyperionin lowlife who shot great Kavax in the chest so
that his skin melted from his rib cage. I ball the cloth in my
ﬁst.
Yet I do not drop it.
Suddenly, all I can remember of the woman is the
hollowness in her eyes as she looked down at me in the
back of their aircar. That was a soul ripping itself to pieces.
I know because I felt it too, because I wore those eyes
when I knew what Ephraim had used me to do.
Was that Volga’s truth? Did she feel the same shame I
did? Could it be I wasn’t the only one used by Ephraim
fucking Horn? Maybe…or maybe I just want to talk to
someone. Maybe I just want to prove I’m alive.
I bite my thumb till it bleeds and tear the edge of a nail
away. I dip it in the blood and begin to write on the back of
the piece of cloth: “My name is Lyria. You might remember
me…”

***EphraimCommunication on Eagle's Rest has been cut oﬀ to all but

high-ranking Alltribe personnel. Seﬁ doesn’t want
information getting out, or possibly in. HoloNet access
severed. Several of my skuggi, including Freihild, were
called away for service to the Queen before a scheduled
run-through of a highrise inﬁltration down in Olympia,
which was summarily canceled and all passes to the city
general revoked.
Pax and I gossip audibly in case of listening devices, and
arrange the peas on our plates in the code he developed for
us. Having recently gone through Xenophon to acquire
ﬁberwire for the skuggi, I set out six peas. Pax, having built
the harnesses I requested, sets out two, then seven in
query of the ship Seﬁ promised me. I squash the peas. No
ship. Still a ﬂight risk.
The door bursts open. Electra stalks in.
“Hatchetface! We saved you some peas.” I gesture to the
ones I smashed. At ﬁrst I think she’s jealous of our little

suppers, until she throws open the windows and goes out
onto the terrace. Pax frowns and we follow. Beyond the
pulseBubble encasing my suite, something is happening in
Olympia.
Down in the city, candles ﬂicker from broken windows
and atop crumbling towers. A sea of them move through
the street. The Forbidden Song drifts ominously in the
wind.
She looks over at Pax.
Has Mercury fallen?
Before anyone can put words to the fear, the door to my
suite opens again. Ozgard comes out onto the terrace. “The
Queen has summoned you. All of you.”
—
Instead of being taken to the throne room, we’re led
through the night to an armored military shuttle. “You got a
bead on this?” I ask them as we board. Electra ignores me.
Pax shakes his head. “You?”
“I’ve got a few ideas.”
“Thank Jove for the mercenary and his professional
opinion,” Electra snaps, but her teeth are dull today. Is it
her parents or Pax’s that have gone down? Is it Mercury or
Luna, or something else?
The military shuttle has no view windows in the
bunkrooms or mess we’re sequestered within for the threeday voyage, but all of us can feel the calm before the storm.
Pax devotes his days to a sort of waking slumber—a
meditation practice Ozgard has taught him. Together they
recite obscure prayers while Electra drives all mad by
pacing the deck like a pissed-oﬀ alley cat.
“What kind of Nagal is that?” I ask Pax before we bunk
down for the evening. “Didn’t sound familiar.”

He glances at Ozgard. Finding the shaman sleeping, he
explains in a low voice, “It isn’t Nagal. It’s Tetkjr. Some of
the old prayers survived. Ozgard found remnants of them in
old temples on Mercury. He’s been teaching me. Hasn’t
been spoken inside the Belt since the Dark Revolt.”
The Dark Revolt was a myth in the legions, believed only
by conspiracy theorists and drunks. But after the Fall, the
Republic published the history that the Society did their
best to scrub out of existence. Read like ﬁction. Five
hundred years before the Reds rebelled, the Obsidians
nearly toppled the Society, led by a shadowy ﬁgure known
as King Kuthul. Of course, Pax is only too eager to explain
in excruciating detail.
“Gold was seldom generous in victory. The genocide that
followed the Battle of Peitho consisted not just of mass
culling, but social and cultural reengineering. A
domestication of a wild breed into a more…sustainable and
predictable stock. Technophobia was introduced as well as
other paradigm alterations. Allfather became Allmother.
Mongol sociological structure became Norse. Patriarchy
became matriarchy, an inversion of the division protocol
they used on Reds.”
My skin begins to crawl. “And now you speak their
language. That’s gotta be all sorts of bad luck.”
He smiles, captivated by the subject. “Some of my
mother’s more fanciful theorists think that the Ascomanni
speak it. Or at least parts.”
“Aren’t they just assholes from the ice tribes who didn’t
follow Seﬁ?”
“Sure, but their correspondences are odd if that’s the
case. For instance, they allude to a central ﬁgure, a Volsung
Fá—it means ‘Volsung the Taker,’ sort of like a king.” He
pauses when Ozgard murmurs something in his sleep, and
lowers his voice to a whisper. “You know, not all the
warlords of the Dark Revolt were captured.”

I moan. “Gods, now you sound like a legion drunk.”
“Shh. It’s true. Some hid in the Belt. Some were chased
to Neptune, where their ﬂeet was smashed. The stragglers
were believed to have been hunted and killed to the last
warband. But…about a hundred years preceding the reign
of Octarius au Lune, ships began to go missing in the
Kuiper Belt. They would simply vanish. Common consensus
was pilot error or environmental degradation on
equipment. Then one vessel escaped.”
“Go on.”
“I thought I sounded like a legion drunk.”
“Pax.”
“They reported a loss in artiﬁcial gravity, followed by
light failure, and sounds from outside the hull. Later
welding patterns were found outside. Diamond drill
marks.”
“Creepy.”
“It wasn’t until Octarius that the ﬁrst Kuiper Obsidian
was spotted, and the name Ascomanni began to circulate.
At ﬁrst, they were of little concern. Further reconnaissance
suggested nomadic caravans of ice miners, subterranean
dwellings, sparse populations, and fractious tribal
dynamics. It seems the Ascomanni even managed to take
some carvers with them. Their skin was said to be red,
possibly from genetic sculpting with Deinococcus
radiodurans, an extremophilic bacterium highly resistant to
deepspace radiation, vacuum, dehydration, and cold.
“Closer to the reign of Octavia, they became bolder and
began to raid at will. After the death of her daughter,
around ﬁfteen years ago, Octavia sent the Fear Knight on
an expeditionary campaign when terraforming on Pluto was
threatened by the raids.”
“Why didn’t Octavia simply send out the Sword Armada
and ﬁnish them oﬀ?” I ask. “Seems like something she’d

enjoy.”
“Cost, beneﬁt.” He looks annoyed by my vacant
expression. “At times, it frightens me how little people care
about the tiny corner of the galaxy they inhabit. Earth is
one AU from the sun. Neptune is thirty. The Kuiper Belt is
ﬁfty. It is twenty times as wide and almost two hundred
times as massive as the Inner Belt. Moira’s estimates
suggested it would take the Sword Armada ﬁve thousand
years to search half the Kuiper Belt. Octavia had other
things on her plate.
“Back to the Fear Knight. One year in, he reported back
that the situation was untenable. He’d been ambushed and
lost all but two ships. Octavia told him to go radio silent
until the operation was complete. It was an execution. But
seven years ago, he returned. And at about the same time
that deepspace miners began to suggest the Ascomanni
had united under a single ruler. An outlander they called
Volsung—‘He Who Walks the Void.’…Obviously, our treaty
with the Rim makes further inquiry…diﬀicult.”
“An outlander from where?” Electra asks. She’s been
listening from her little nest in the top bunk above
Ozgard’s. The psycho’s eyes gleam at the idea of evil, redskinned, far-ﬂung Obsidian warlords.
Pax shrugs. “Could be someone the Fear Knight helped to
power. A translation discrepancy. Or maybe Atlas’s ships
were damaged and he lost coms for ten years and tucked
tail. Whatever the case, if this Volsung Fá exists, it would
be highly unlikely Martian or Terran Obsidians who turned
raiders would have any interaction with true Ascomanni.
They’re years away on the ships they have. People just gave
the pirates the name because people like legends. But it
makes you wonder, what if they have met with their long
lost brethren? What if they are coordinating and Volsung Fá
rules not just the far Obsidian, but the pirates too?”

Electra leans back in her bunk, no doubt eager to dream
of nightmares beyond the void. I lie back in mine,
thoroughly disturbed.
“You’re shit at bedtime stories,” I say.
“Apologies. Next time I’ll tell you the tale of Sophocles
the clone, a creature so noble and so wise he learned to
cheat death.” He rolls over to go to sleep. I lie awake for a
while, and roll on my side. Ozgard stares at me from his
adjacent bunk. His eyes like two black mirrors. He was
listening the whole time.
On the fourth day, the vibration of landing gears
reverberates through the ship. The shuttle makes contact
with a metal hull outside, and I feel the more substantial
pull of capital ship gravity.
“We’ve rendezvoused with their ﬂeet,” Electra guesses.
Pax shakes his head, but doesn’t correct her. I don’t know
how or when he ﬁgured it out, but he alone is not surprised
when we step out into the VIP hangar of an old baroque
cruise liner.
Thousands of bloodbraves prepare for war in the hangar.
I don’t recognize these men or women from Olympia,
because they aren’t from Olympia. These are the frontline
veterans, still wearing the deep sunburns of Mercury.
Jogging troops carry tattered war standards of the tribes
Seﬁ formed into her forward legions: the Ice Ravens, the
River, the Blackhearts. Pax stares at his father’s former
soldiers. They should be on Mercury, or in the lands the
Republic gave them for barracks on Earth. Somehow
they’re here, and I think I know why.
“Horn!” Freihild calls as we descend the landing ramp.
Ten of my skuggi are arrayed beneath a giant coral
archway gilded with golden letters reading Heart of Venus.
I thought the design looked familiar. It’s an old luxury
cruise ship.

“So this is where you snuck oﬀ to,” I say as we are
herded toward them.
“We’ve been preparing for your arrival, sir,” Freihild says
with a crooked smile for Ozgard.
“Where’s the rest of the skuggi?” I ask.
Freihild shrugs. “Come. The Queen awaits.”
I know this ship all too well. I thought the Heart was
destroyed in the war. Instead, it is as if the cruise ship has
gone schizoid. The halls, long ago looted, are cluttered with
refuse. Automated doors to staterooms and spas open and
close at random. The lights inside ﬂicker, with climate
zones oscillating between freezing and swamplike. And
everywhere there are Obsidian bedrolls, meal stations,
stacked arms of a bivouacking army, and dust, so much
Mercurian dust, from their gear, the engines of their ships,
even their boots.
So that’s how she smuggled them under the nose of the
Republic. They must have left when the Senate recalled
half the ﬂeet. Pax and Electra watch them with contempt.
Left the Reaper in quite a lurch.
To leave the VIP zone, we take an eccentric gravLift
upward. The glass tube rises through an aquarium in the
heart of the ship. Once, it treated tourists to a view of the
rainbow life beneath the Venusian waves. Now the glass is
crusted with barnacles and smeared with algae. Without
her caretakers to maintain balance, the ecosystem seems to
have been hijacked by predators. They lurk under coral
reefs and lumber through unﬁltered murk. Ozgard chews
his walnuts and watches as an ebony tentacle ripples
through the shadows.
He murmurs something reverential in Nagal. Eyes wide
and delighted, he points toward the shapes and murmurs to
the children: “It is battle of strength. They eat each other.

Soon one will remain…” He looks out at the water, the word
a song on his tongue: “…victorious.”
I pick the threads of my Alltribe uniform. “Then he’ll
starve. Or eat himself. King of a kingdom of one.” They all
stare at me. Ozgard and Electra in annoyance, Freihild in
amusement. Pax in agreement.
The mezzanine level fares no better than the aquarium.
The central playground where tourists would throng to
restaurants and ballrooms and pleasure palaces has
become a parlor of ghosts. As if a ﬁne old party was in full
narcotic-fueled bloom, and everyone suddenly vanished,
leaving their glasses on the table and their jokes half told.
The air is freezing. A thunderstorm rumbles through the
halls. Fizzling here and there from dead speakers.
“Trapped in echo,” Ozgard explains reverently.
It ain’t the only one.
Some decade and a half ago, I vacationed here for the
month round-trip to Venus. I walked its seafoam green
carpets, martini in one hand, designer burner in the other,
pockets weighed down by casino chips purloined from
Silver tycoons mystiﬁed at how they could lose to a Gray.
Karachi has the tendency to humble those used to playing
life with a stacked deck.
Cost me half a year’s wages to rub shoulders with the
highColors here, but Trigg let me pretend. It mattered to
me. I was an uppity idiot desperate to prove I could spend
money too. He tried his best to make me happy. He really
did. That ﬁrst night we danced to Venusian wave, then bit
by bit he withdrew into himself until all he did was sit in his
room and watch the news.
I know the Obsidians see what he saw.
How we drank as they froze and killed and sold oﬀ their
men to gods to eke out another season in the poles. How
the Gray phalanxes stood in orderly ranks to form the chain

to their collar. Gray. So frail on our own. So impregnable
when we lock arms.
Been a long time since that happened.
“What happened here?” I ask.
“War,” Freihild says. “Sons of Ares released achlys-9
years ago. Left the ship to drift in the Ink. Scavengers,
looters, thieves, all come in seasons. Time passes. Servants
of our Queen found and put to purpose for tribe.”
“Sounds more like Gorgons than the Sons of Ares,”
Electra says.
Freihild shrugs. “All trees bear bad seeds, some bloody in
bloom.”
“The Red Hand,” Pax clariﬁes. “Or its early form.
Harmony, one of Ares’s more violent agents, composed it
from radicalized Sons who believed Ares’s Gold origins was
my mother’s propaganda. They claim her brother killed
Ares. And that Ares’s true identity was Narol, my father’s
uncle, instead of Electra’s grandfather.”
“You have a fucked-up family,” I say.
He frowns. “Yes.”
I feel half frozen and haunted all the way through by the
time we reach the rococo entrance to the Heart’s Starboard
Theater.
We follow Freihild into the dilapidated theater to the
sound of a soprano delivering her aria. The impossibly thin
Violet—a girl the color of a rainy street with a neck twice
the length of mine—sings on a star-backed stage beneath
an ivory mermaid. The theater is a sea of mouldering green
silk, with a lone island of life near the front row. We draw
closer down the aisle. Each step taking me deeper into the
dream.
The Queen of the Valkyrie sits watching Wagner.
I would laugh if it all weren’t so damn haunting. A dozen
Valkyrie veterans lounge in the rows behind their Queen.

Valdir lies on the ﬂoor, giving an exaggerated yawn to
Freihild as she sweeps in with us. She hides a smile.
Xenophon sits rigid several rows behind the Valkyrie.
Onstage, the giraﬀe-necked Isolde now cradles the body
of Tristan, her lover. The audio snags. The soprano begins
to crackle, distort, and then dissolve.
Holograms.
Amel, Seﬁ’s Pink, sweeps onto the stage, tapping his
datapad. “The ﬁle is corrupted, Your Majesty.” Seﬁ waves a
hand for silence. She greets me with a nod and motions for
the children and me to sit beside her.
“Welcome to the Heart of Venus,” she says. “You are just
in time for the show.” She gestures to Amel, who looks
suddenly confused standing in the center of the stage.
“Amel here was a whore of the Aphrodite House, before I
killed his owner. He was no more than the well of pleasure
he could provide his clients. They would dip into it and sip.
But there was always less in the well. Age comes for us all.”
She glances at Valdir, who frowns, then back to Amel. “The
Silvers would call this a well of diminishing returns. Soon
he would have no purpose. I oﬀered Amel aeta. He receives
one hundred thousand credits per year. Less than a whore
of his pedigree would earn in a Lunese brothel, but more
than ten welders. Do you think that fair, Amel? That you
earn less than whore, but more than welder?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.” If the Pink is nervous, he doesn’t let
on. I, on the other hand, notice the shadows moving in the
wings of the stage. Skuggi. Freihild seems surprised by
their presence.
“Do you miss being a whore?” Seﬁ asks Amel.
“No, Your Majesty.”
“Good. I am happy you are happy, Amel.” She smiles at
him. “There are some who believe Pinks cannot be trusted.
My people believe that the spirit rots when the body is

weak.” Her eyes are on Valdir, not Amel. “It rots and rots
until the rot turns to poison. Do you believe this to be true,
Mr. Horn?”
“I know a few who live up to that,” I reply carefully.
“What do you believe, children?” she asks, taking her
eyes from Valdir.
“Spirits are imaginary constructs derived from human
fear of mortality,” Pax replies.
Electra shrugs. “You heard him.”
“Amel?” Seﬁ asks. “Are you rotten inside?”
“No, Your Majesty. The rot my Gold master put upon my
spirit was cleansed when you bathed his dining table with
his blood and set his children to the knife. You are my
Deliverer.”
Seﬁ sighs. “Finish the song for me, Amel.”
The Pink blinks. “I beg your pardon?”
“Finish the song. I know you can.”
Amel ﬂinches as the skuggi step from the shadowed
wings of the stage. Gudkind leads them. Freihild glances at
Valdir for explanation. Amel’s shoulders sag, and slowly he
begins to sing. His voice is not that of the Violet’s but has a
purity of its own. The skuggi slip onto the stage and begin
to light a ﬁre in the refuse of the set design. Flames lick
over wooden boulders and trees as the Pink’s voice breaks
from fear.
He glares at Ozgard. “I do not know what the madman
has told you, my Queen, but you have cleansed me. I serve
only you.”
“Amel is loyal,” Valdir protests to his mate. “Do not be
misled by the madman.” He glares at Ozgard as if this were
all his doing.
Fear has taken Amel. “I did not betray you, my Queen.
On my honor!”

“A man has little, a whore has none,” Seﬁ replies.
He stands there trembling. The soprano hologram
sputters back to life, echoing the Pink’s song as Gudkind
and the skuggi descend on Amel and hack him to pieces
with cleavers. I watch in horror as they toss the pieces of
the beautiful man into the ﬂames.
Black smoke swirls.
I grow very still inside as the scent of burning ﬂesh
hunches through the opera house. I don’t know who this
was for. A warning for Valdir and Freihild, or for me. And
neither do they. Is their secret known? Will they join Amel?
Is Seﬁ proving her skuggi are loyal to her, and not Freihild?
The children watch this in dead silence. If Seﬁ wants them
to learn about Obsidian virtues, she’s doing a ﬁne job of it.
“My people have a word,” Seﬁ murmurs to me,
“rahgschni. There is no translation in the Common tongue.
As close as can be said is: the sorrow one feels in seeing
fresh morning snow, knowing its beauty cannot last.” She
looks back at the ﬁre. The ﬂames saw her black eyes. “The
Sovereign is dead.”
I grow cold, realizing why the city of Olympia was lit up
with candles and Eagle Rest went on lockdown. Pax does
not move. “What?” Electra bolts to her feet.
“She was butchered in the Senate by a mob along with
my senators,” Seﬁ says as she stares into the ﬂames. “It
was the signal to begin a general coup. The ArchGovernor
of Mars was shot in the head by his butler within his
sanctum in Agea. Sevro was captured on Earth, Howlers
slaughtered. More than a dozen others were killed. Valdir,
heat of my heart, you say Amel here was loyal. But he
received coded message from deepspace relay station
home to Gold intelligence. I was to be assassinated with the
rest.”
“Amel is loyal,” Valdir says.

“I sensed a quavering of his spirit long ago,” Ozgard
conﬁrms.
“You fat devil!” Valdir bellows. “You will be the death of
us all. Maybe you sense a quavering of mine next. I know
your game, serpent. I know how you coil close to heat, for
the cold blood in your own veins.”
“Am I stupid, heat of my heart?” Seﬁ says to Valdir. “To
act only on the senses of shaman? To be guided like
puppet? It was Xenophon who brought this to me, not
Ozgard.” Valdir’s anger cools somewhat as he spares a look
at the trusted White. “For some time, Amel has been
passing information to this relay station, to his Gold
overlords. Including my diet, and list of preferred vintages.
A poisoned bottle was found in his possession. He served
me many years. But was rotten in the end.”
Valdir grows quiet. To him, Xenophon’s word is worth far
more than Ozgard’s hunches. Yet he cannot accept it.
By the way Seﬁ’s looking at me, I might just be joining
Amel in the ﬁre. She’s cleaning house.
She watches me for a moment, her black eyes peering
deep into me before ﬂicking away toward Electra, who is
still on her feet.
“Who did it?” the girl demands. “How did a mob kill
Virginia au Augustus? Is my father alive? Tell us!”
“We do not know,” Xenophon answers. “Publius cu
Caraval seems to be the instigator and perpetrator of the
coup, and allied with ArchImperator Zan and Vox elements
in the government. We have conﬁrmed this with Niobe au
Telemanus, who now leads the Ecliptic Guard to Luna to
demand the Sovereign’s return. Whether she is dead or
alive, we do not know.”
“Publius? That dreary little shit?” Electra is stunned.
“Naw. He doesn’t have the juice, even with Zan.”

“He is likely the puppet of Atalantia,” Seﬁ says. At that,
Pax loses his ability to listen. He stands, quivers, and bolts
from the opera house. Electra glares down at Seﬁ.
“How long have you known? Three days? You cold bitch.”
Seﬁ nods. “World is hard. He must be too.”
“You weakened her by leaving,” Electra snaps. “You
abandoned them. This is your fault. I know it. He knows it.
We all fucking know it.”
“Your mother weakened her too.”
Electra ﬂinches at that and storms after Pax. Seﬁ jerks
her head, and Ozgard pursues. Valdir watches the child go
with a deep sense of sadness. He is more complicated than
just a warrior. The loyalty he feels to Darrow must be
immense, and I wonder if Seﬁ isn’t the villain here after all.
“You didn’t have to do it like that,” I say.
“I did not bring you here to play nursemaid to children or
lecture me, Mr. Horn. You asked me when ﬁrst we met
what Julii would pay for her ﬁrstborn. Today, I tell you. She
has provided us with information and ore ships on which to
transfer my forward legions under nose of Republic ﬂeet.”
At Seﬁ’s instruction, Xenophon still steps forward to ﬂing
a holo onto the opera stage where Amel’s remains still
burn. Blueprints unfold from a tiny mote like the tendrils of
jellyﬁsh. My eye darts, my brain decrypts, analyzes, reverse
engineers the Byzantine mess to see the hundreds of
complexes, sophisticated killzones, subterranean bunkers.
No. Not bunkers. I feel for my Z dispenser.
“I was right. You want to start another war.”
“No. I want to end war. The Republic breaks under its
own weight. Obsidian must not. These are schematics for
helium mines of Cimmeria. I was hesitant to act when
Virginia sat upon Morning Chair. Now, no precautions, no
hesitation. We strike.” The Queen’s smile crawls upward,
her devious nature burning hot and bright beneath that ice

exterior. “Helium is blood of empires, Mr. Horn. Master it,
master destiny. And I will master our destiny. In one week’s
time, we take mines of Cimmeria, and the continent as our
homeland. It is time to test your skuggi.”
“They are not ready,” Valdir says with a worried glance to
Freihild. “My battle plan will get you the—”
Seﬁ holds up a hand. “You break planets, Valdir. I do not
want a broken Mars. That is the last resort. I want a Mars
that welcomes me as protector, as Great Mother. Mr. Horn,
I need defense grids lowered. Tell me. Are your skuggi
ready?”
With the smell of Amel’s burning body in my nostrils, I
look at Freihild, who gives me an eerie smile.
“Yeah, they’ll do your dirty trick. World’s burning
anyway.”

***LysanderI wake feeling more tired than before I slept. It is still dark

out. The quiet sounds of the soldiers preparing for the
day’s trek north surround me. I sit up and gag at the pain
of my wounded face. It is infected. My dreams were warped
by fever and fear. Again the chair, again the door, again the
shadows and laughter on the other side. I don’t know how I
get to my feet.
It is in silence that we set out into the cool dark.
Kalindora walks closer to me now, always keeping herself
between me and Cicero. Despite her grievous wound, I feel
safer in her shadow. She whispers quiet poems to herself as
the sun begins to rise.

“What think you the dead are? Why, dust and clay,
What should they be? ’Tis the last hour of day.
Look on the west, how beautiful it is
Vaulted with radiant vapours! The deep bliss

of that unutterable light
Perhaps the only comfort which remains
Is the unheeded clanking of my chains,
The which I make, and call it melody.”
The words keep me walking. But temperatures ascend as
the sun climbs over the mountains. Just when I believe I
can’t go another step, I feel Kalindora’s hand on my lower
back, steadying me. Always it lingers there, and I ﬁnd I
miss it when she takes it back.
We walk and walk until we break for water in the middle
of a playa.
“Nobody move,” Cicero says. We freeze at the tension in
his voice. He gestures slowly to a cactus, beneath which is
a hole in the hardpan. “If you value life, slowly, back away.”
We put a hundred meters between us and the animal
hole. “What was that?” I ask him when we collapse down
for water in the shadow of a yellow cactus as tall as ﬁve
men.
“Hydra burrow,” he says. “They hunt sunbloods. We’d be
a nice little aperitif for them.” He wanders oﬀ to inspect a
nearby cactus blossom. Kalindora squats in the dirt beside
me and stares east. The remains of an unmarked bomber
lie several kilometers oﬀ. Several of the Grays hack at cacti
with utility knives to suck water from the meat. It’s barely
worth the eﬀort. The storms have thrashed the ﬂora. I take
enough water from the canteen to ﬁll my mouth. There will
be none left after this break. “Take more,” Kalindora says.
“That burn is sapping you dry.”
She can barely stand herself.
“We don’t have enough.”
“Take more. There’s always a chance we’ll ﬁnd
something, maybe in that bomber. But no chance at all if
you die now.” She tilts the canteen and I swallow another

mouthful. She sits down beside me and splays out her long
legs. The fabric of her thermaskin, like mine, is caked white
with chalk.
“While the lips are calm and the eyes cold, the spirit
weeps within.”
Kalindora smiles softly as I recite.
“I see you’re still fond of Shelley. Does it help take your
mind away?”
“No,” she replies. “I just don’t think anyone should die
without hearing poetry one last time.” Whether she means
me or herself is unclear. “I’m going to have hot tea,” she
says suddenly.
“What?”
“When we get back. A hot tea and a cold bath. How
about you?”
“Fralic juice and vodka,” I say.
“Fralic juice and vodka?” She squints at me, ﬁnding more
meaning in it than I meant. “Why?”
“I don’t know. I’ve never even had it before.” That seems
to puzzle her. “Octavia said that her greatest mastery of the
Mind’s Eye came when she could make herself taste a food
simply by thinking of it,” I say.
“Well, I can do that,” she says. “Watch. Dust.” She licks
her lips. “Gods, just like the real thing.” I am unable to
smile from the burn. “What’s it like?” she asks. “The Mind’s
Eye.”
“It is diﬀicult to explain.” She waits for me to try. “Have
you ever had a moment where you couldn’t fail? Where
everything seemed slow, except you? Like you were the
center of all gravity, all time, and your thoughts themselves
were second to your actions?”
“Sometimes, in combat.”
“Bad comparison,” I say. “You were a sailor before, yes?”

She considers. “Sometimes when the wind is strong, you
slide like a knife over the water…it feels like you’re ﬂying.”
“Then you have touched it. But imagine you could control
that peace, that sense of harmony, and summon it
according to your will.”
She reconsiders me.
“You can do that at will?”
“At times. Octavia could like this.” I snap my ﬁngers. “It
isn’t without ﬂaw. It didn’t make her a warrior equal to Aja.
But it made her very…dangerous. She said it could even
stop poison, if mastered.”
“All poison?”
I’m about to answer when I see movement to the north. I
squint out at bright chalk ﬂats. Amidst a cloud of dust, a
herd of pale sunbloods race one another against the
horizon. Not one, not ten, but hundreds. I stand up to
watch, wondering if it is real or a desert mirage. Either way
it is one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen.
Then I realize it is not one another they race.
“Not again,” Kalindora whispers.
A dark smudge rolls across the desert behind the
stampede.
“Sandstorm!” Cicero shouts. “Damn that man! Damn
him! Everyone, to the bomber! That sand will shred us to
the bone! Hurry!”
We bolt to our feet and run east toward the wreckage,
but the Grays and I are falling behind. Kalindora tries to
help me along, but with me weighing her down, she’ll never
make it.
Uninjured, Cicero and his Golds chew up the kilometers
with their rangy legs. They don’t even bother looking back
for us. The wall of sand is close enough now that it seems
to scrape the sky.

It swallows a dozen horses whole. I shove Kalindora
away. “Go!” She bats my arms out of the way and lunges to
try and pick me up with one arm. I back away from her.
“Go!”
She glances at the encroaching wall, then back at me,
with real fear in her eyes. For a moment, I think she will
stay. Then she turns and sprints away, long strides making
her bounce like a jackrabbit in the low gravity. I am left
alone.
I face the wall, and grip Cassius’s razor as if it will save
me. Everything has darkened. Dust obscures the sky. The
Grays continue to try to make it to the bomber. They won’t.
I search for some hiding place. Some boulder or wreckage
to shelter behind. There is nothing. Nothing.
A cool certainty slides over me.
I race back the way we came and see dirt swirling over
the hydra burrow’s entrance. It is wide enough for a Red,
but not for me. Flattening my thumb against the shape
sensor, I form the razor into a wide-mouthed falchion and
chop furiously at the ground, expanding the hole’s
circumference.
The wall is nearly upon me. I dive into the burrow at the
last second. My shoulders clear, my hips stick. Ripping skin
from my sides, I crawl into the darkness just as the wall
hits.

***Lysandersharing the darkness with me. A
dread creature I cannot see or hear for the howling
darkness of the storm outside. I can sense it moving,
judging the creature that has invaded its home.
I have never seen a hydra with my own eyes. Five
hundred years ago, the Votum commissioned a sect of
Lunese carvers to create them so that they might have
something challenging to hunt. Some say the carvers were
far too ambitious in their designs.
I lie trembling on my back, with my razor rigid and
pointed outward from my belly as the hours creep past.
They are the longest hours of my life. Especially when a
mass of scales rested against my leg. The Hydra is
digesting another meal.
When the storm ﬁnally passes, I hear a faint hissing, like
dry skin dragged over tin. Very carefully, I slide backward
out of the hydra’s burrow, keeping my razor pointed
HERE IS A MONSTER

downward in case it decides to make a last-minute meal of
me.
When I ﬁnally see the sun again, I stumble away from the
hole and almost vomit from tension. Only when I am far
enough away do I fall on my back and start to laugh and
cry.
I never knew I’d be so happy to not be a hydra’s lunch.
After a half a minute, the sun begins to burn my face. I
sit up and squint into the waste.
The playa is cleansed. Cacti sway like leftover shishkebab sticks. No life stirs. No debris can be seen. The
Grays have been swallowed by the desert. I make my way
over to the bomber, now just a hump of sand, and call for
Kalindora. There is no answer. Nor is there when I call for
Cicero.
I dig through the sand and ﬁnd nothing but two decaying
Blue pilots, half-eaten by predators. They wear no insignia
but a child’s face wreathed in serpents. Gorgons. This was
one of Atlas’s bombers.
The hold is empty. The magazines have ruptured inward.
Unﬁred missiles lie in the hold. A ration bar wrapper lies on
the ﬂoor. One of ours. Outside the bomber, I ﬁnd
indentations in the sand, indicating the passage of a
shuttle. A spent railgun battery lies on the ground.
Not one of ours. Sun Industries tech.
I squint south and see the shuttle as a dot racing for
Heliopolis. Kalindora must be on it. Another captive for the
Rising.
I go back inside the bomber and collapse in the hold
amongst the unﬁred missiles. I lie there forlorn until I fall
asleep. When I wake, my loneliness in the silence is
absolute.
Pytha knew this was coming.
But I believed the myth of war.

Worse, I thought myself special. Immune to the horrors
lesser men face.
Diomedes was right. All men are tiny before the storm.
There is nothing but pain from my ruined face and deep,
indescribable exhaustion. Seraphina is dead. The alliance
may be broken because of it. My Praetorians rotting or
captured. The tears sting my wounds as I weep. Why did I
betray Cassius? For this? Why did I return to this horrible
place?
My hopes of a united Gold, of peace, now seem so
laughable.
Not only did I overestimate my own importance. I
underestimated the scope of war.
There is no escape from this. It will eat us all.
I could ﬂee this pain, ﬁnd refuge in the Mind’s Eye
meditation and slip slowly into the Void as my body fails,
but I cannot give Grandmother that honor. She did
something to me. Something I cannot understand. I was a
child who needed love in the shadow of his parents’ deaths.
Instead, she beat me into the shape of a cup and poured
her lessons into me. I will not let those lessons be my last
act in this world.
“Cry not, mortal child,” a voice says in the darkness.
“They come on wings of sable, to rend your precious ﬂesh,
and send you to the doom which lies beyond this realm of
pain.”
I sit up. Am I going mad?
“Lie still and it will end. Lie still and the seed of Silenius
will wither to time.”
“Who is there?” I ask. A translucent mass squats in the
shadows of the downed aircraft. It seems immense. The air
warps above the ghostCloak with hornlike projections. If it
is a ghostCloak and not the madness of the desert creeping
in.

“Dwell not on me, mortal. Nocturnal devils are afoot.
Awake, arise, or be forever fallen.”
I hear it now. The sound of gravBoots.
I watch through a ﬁssure in the hull as seven armored
men land in the night. Seneca’s voice drifts from the
darkness. “Lysander, oh, Lysander, come out, come out,
little boy. Death has come.”
So Ajax has sent his boar of a bodyguard to ﬁnish the
task.
The thought of dying at the hands of some thin-blood
brute ﬁlls me with irrational fear. I am not ﬁt for this world
of rough killers. My hand goes to the side of my neck where
I received my mission implant. They tracked it at last. I
turn to the man in the darkness.
“Help me,” I beg.
“I help no man who does not help himself, and no man do
I help who is no boon to me. Six years I have collated
knowledge to become the mightiest of mortal vessels. Yet
one morsel still eludes my voluminous mind. Hidden in no
Fury. No books. Trusted to no digital void. It lingers yet,
this knowledge in one sepulchre. Four days I have followed.
Four days you have denied me my quest. I must know the
Mind’s Eye. Show it to me. Or perish.”
The air ripples as the man slips out of the ship.
“Lysander,” Seneca taunts. “There’s nowhere to run. Will
the Heir of Silenius die in a rat hole? Have dignity in the
end; your ancient blood demands it.” The thin-bloods
chuckle to one another.
I spotted seven of them, all in fresh pulseArmor. I won’t
stand a chance. But will I die here cowering? Or will I die
with dignity? As I stand, my feet disturb the spilled
munitions on the ﬂoor, and I sense a fresh variable.
Seven Peerless Scarred stand in the darkness as I
emerge barefoot.

Their predatory Iron Leopard war helmets watch with no
human emotion. As if my left arm were broken, I cradle the
internal payload of a ﬁrebrand munition wrapped in torn
seat lining.
I need those helmets oﬀ.
“Ajax couldn’t even take out his own trash,” I mock. My
voice is ragged. “How admirable.”
Seneca chuckles. “He would, but Atalantia has him under
lock and key, such is her grief at the death of precious
Lysander. Shall we formalize it?”
Seven razors unfurl. Mine remains on my hip.
“What did he promise you, Seneca?”
“A torchShip each,” one of the Golds says.
“That’s the price of my life?”
“Draw your iron, boy. Ajax made me promise you’d die
well.”
“Does any man die well if he cannot look his killer in the
eye?” I peer around at the grim visages of the battered
warhelms. “Which of you will it be? Which of you will kill
the last Heir of Silenius? Don’t you want me to know as I lie
dying?”
Oh do I know my people.
Their helmets unfurl to reveal their faces.
My name still means something. They want me to see
their eyes as they kill me. They want me to comprehend
their superiority. And each wants to deliver the blow, and
with it declare themselves stronger than my decrepit
bloodline. They are the future, not the last blood of Lune
who couldn’t even survive a week at the front. And they
want me to know it.
I take my razor and let it unfurl into the killing blade.
“No bribe? No begging?” Seneca asks. “I expected more
whinging from the entitled cur.”

“As a human, I am entitled only to death.”
“That’s the spirit.” Seneca smiles with his pack. “Kill the
Pixie.”
Seven Peerless butchers slip forward. My left hand pulls
the activation wire of the ﬁrebrand payload, I drop the seat
lining, and toss the payload into the air. I bury my face in
the sand.
The air stills as the ﬁrebrand detonates overhead. It
releases no kinetic wash of energy, only spasms of
ultraviolet light brighter than that of a nuclear explosion. It
makes no sound.
Even with my head in the sand, I go blind.
But so do the bare-faced killers. As they scream from the
weapon ﬂash burning their retinas, I search myself for the
fear that has stalked me since I landed on this planet. I
need not search further than what I felt in the hydra
burrow. Fear writhes like a dark, maggoty river from my
pelvis to the tip of my spine. Pulsing. Roaring. Not fear of
death. Fear of failure. Fear of being a fool. Fear of
inconsequence. Fear of being alone. Fear of proving I am
nothing more than my grandmother’s puppet. Fear that I
am weak and meant for the maggots.
But the Mind’s Eye waits for me like an old glove.
I am the last of its acolytes.
It is not Grandmother’s anymore. It was never an
inheritance. I earned it by suﬀering as a boy as she did as a
girl. Fear is the torrent.
My transition into the folds of harmony is fulﬁlling.
My eyes may be blind, but my mind sees.
The world rushes through the multi-sensorial pupil of the
Mind’s Eye. The projection stems from memory. I see the
grains of sand as they were before the blast of light. I feel
the weight of the men on its surface. Smell the musty sweat
of unwashed armor, the bitter roast of coﬀee, the sweet

reek of combat chemicals and the protein cubes they ate
before they descended. Blood pumps in their veins.
Insulated feet slide in their boots. I feel their skins,
knowing where instinct will take them, where training will
guide them to my blade like sheep to slaughter. I see them
in the blindness, and I take on the Winter Whirlwind stance
of the Willow Way.
Are you awake or asleep, Lysander?
I slip forward.
Three die without even swinging their razors.
The pommel of the Bellona razor jolts in my hand as the
blade carves through pulseArmor, bone, and ﬂesh of the
third man. I feel the heat of blood sluicing down my arm.
Hear the puking as it comes out of the man’s mouth. I pull
the razor upward from his belly, holding his sword hand
down, and saw through his breastplate. I stop shy of his
heart so that he will continue to scream. I trip him and ride
his momentum down to the ground, rolling forward then
upward and crouching on a knee.
They shout to one another now. The noise of the dying a
bedlam to muddle their ears. GravBoots whine as one takes
blindly to the air. I rip the pulseFist oﬀ the dying man. With
the Mind’s Eye, I sort through the soup of sound until I ﬁnd
the whine of the gravBoots and feel the reverberation. I
swivel toward it, brace myself on a knee, lead the sound by
several meters, and ﬁre ﬁve shots in a diagonal line. I hear
the snapping sound of a pulseShield absorbing the blast.
There he is. I ﬁre thirty shots until I hear the pulseShield
collapse with a scream. Metal and man crash down into the
sand.
Four down. Three left.
I slide toward the ship as they ﬁre at anything that
makes noise. GravBoots whine at my eleven o’clock. I ﬁre a
full stream from my cover. The man gets away. Several

seconds pass. There is a thump in the desert. My visitor
doesn’t want any escaping either.
The last two are diﬀicult to locate. My memory is
outdated now by a minute, but as I killed I populated the
mental image with my victims. I know the second body is
approximately nine meters and a half west and has a
pulseFist still. I know the fourth body creates a tripping
barrier between a broken wing of the downed bomber and
the fuselage. And when I hear a clink, I know one of the
two survivors is checking the pulse of the ﬁrst corpse two
meters behind me.
I swoop to kill him with a backhand ﬂick of the razor. It
glances oﬀ his risen helmet. I parry his ﬁrst riposte,
knowing it would come as a lower thrust because he was in
a crouch and it is the natural transition strike to prepare
for a diagonal downward slash. I parry that slash and three
more blows of a tight set. He is a clever swordsman, far
stronger supplemented with his armor, but he relies upon
sustained contact to know where I am. I break oﬀ. Wait.
And as he probes the darkness with tentative thrusts, I
rotate around and slip soundlessly forward. The razor digs
the roots. It severs his leg at the thigh. The second strike
takes his hand. The third his ankle.
I let him bleed out. His groans give me cover to move.
Seneca calls to his compatriots. None answer but the
wounded.
“What the fuck?” he growls. I hear his razor hissing
through the air as he swings wildly. His pulseFist roars.
“You little prim bastard! How can you see?”
“Rather, how is it you are blind, Seneca?” As I move
quietly over the sand, I can hear the heartblood pumping
out of the dying men. Glug. Glug. Glug into their broken
armor. “Is this how you saw your future?”

He ﬁres at the sound of my voice. Unlike the others, he is
diﬀicult to ﬁnd. I think he’s stripped oﬀ his boots too now.
His heart rate is steady. His feet quiet despite his mass.
This is a real killer. To guard Ajax’s back, he’d have to be.
“Is there even a future past this moment, Seneca?”
He ﬁres again and misses again. He’s back near the ship.
I weave through the downed bodies and ﬁnd a pulseFist. I
set it back down. It doesn’t seem honorable.
“Only an animal does not plan past the moment.” I slip
sideways as he ﬁres at where I was. “So what does that
make you?”
The sand is cold under my bare feet as I stalk closer.
It’s a trap. He’s hunched forward now, not bothering to
speak. He waits for me to make a sound. Obliging, I toss a
rock against the hull. He ignores it. But he does not ignore
my feet as I push oﬀ the sand to jump toward him. He ﬁres
as if I were running. Blisters bubble on my feet as the
pulseblast warbles just beneath them.
I land a hair too close and swing my razor down. He
catches it in his hand. There’s a jolt as it splits his gauntlet
and divides the radius and ulna bones down the elbow. It
sticks there. I sense his razor coming for my belly. I toggle
my blade into a whip, and twist to the side, holding on to
the razor pommel with my left hand. His blade misses most
of me, but bites hard into my hipbone. The pain is
excruciating. His left shoulder crashes into my face. I
stumble backward, retract the razor out of his arm, and
parry his following slash upward. I push away from him as I
fall. He pursues. I switch my razor back into a whip and
lash it around his ankles as they pass each other mid-stride.
Then I transition the razor back to rigid form, and from my
knees deliver the coup de grâce of the Willow Way, the
Weeping Noose.

The whip encircling his ankles stiﬀens and retracts into a
straight metal line. It goes through armor, ﬂesh, and bone
to do so.
With his feet cut oﬀ at the ankles, Seneca falls with a
crash.
“No!” he roars on the ground, slashing wildly. I gather
myself into a crouch and stay out of range. “No! Fucking
brat. Fucking child. They said you were a Pixie!”
“It would seem they judge the wrong virtues.”
I wait for his riven body to tire. When his protests grow
weak, I approach and stand before him. I favor the deep
wound in my hip. “Who is your favorite poet?” I ask.
“What?” Seneca barks.
“Your favorite poet, man.”
He sighs. “Kipling.”
I sort through what comes to mind, and decide upon a
passage.

“Time hath no tide but must abide
The servant of Thy will;
Tide hath no time, for to Thy rhyme
The ranging stars stand still—
Regent of spheres that lock our fears
Our hopes invisible,
Oh ’twas certes at Thy decrees
We fashioned Heaven and Hell!”
“Fuck you, you fucking P—”
I decapitate Seneca. As his head rolls to the sand, I let go
of the Mind’s Eye and the world throbs.
I am spent. Exhaustion falls like a sweaty anvil. There are
wounds upon my body that I did not notice until now. Lines
of ﬁre race along two deep gashes in my thigh, though the

most painful is the last one Seneca gave me because I
passed on the pulseFist in favor of the razor. Apparently
honor is expensive. Then from behind, a man applauds.
“Apollonius au Valii-Rath, I presume?”
“Indubitably. So the Mind’s Eye is real after all. Atalantia
swore it was a myth. But to see it…ah, to see it.”
“Octavia refused to teach her,” I say. “Is that what you
desire? My grandmother’s secrets?”
“Beggar the whole bounty for this chief prize.”
“The Eye is not a razor to be wielded by any man,” I say,
taking a seat on the ground in exhaustion.
“I am not just any man. Would any man have such
demons as I? Ajax, Atalantia, Atlas…”
“They were responsible for your stay in Deepgrave, I
gather. But what of the source of all this? What of Darrow?”
“A kinship bonds all men betrayed, for they alone know
the deepest breaking of the soul. In time, he must fall so I
might rise. But what savvy butcher would loosen the vise
that keeps his demons in thrall before their comeuppance
comes due?”
“Then the answer is no.”
“No?” His laugh is beautiful and presumptuous.
“Atalantia and Atlas are not my enemies.”
“But Ajax is…after his betrayal?” How long has he
followed me? I do not answer him. He chuckles to himself.
“One is the father, the other the lover. They will choose
Ajax. Without my aid, you will die here, seed of Lune.
Without my aid, you will die anywhere.”
“I have no quarrel with you, Apollonius, but will not be
bridled with a debt to you either.”
“Yet you begged me to aid you.”
“That was the boy inside. He is dead.”
“That was ﬁve minutes ago!”

“Are you the same you were then? Is Seneca?” He does
not reply as I stand. “You sound hungry, Apollonius.” I do
not feel stronger now than I did ﬁve minutes ago. I am no
supreme being with a plan for escape. All I know is that
there is more inside me than I knew. If I die, it will not be
on my knees.
Menace enters his voice. “I could kill you now. I am not
these men.”
“Yes. You could. But you won’t.”
The sand sighs as his mass steps forward. “Are you so
sure, little seed?”
“Reasonably. Though we have never met, I know there is
one thing Apollonius au Valii-Rath cannot resist.” I stand
and cut the mission node from my neck and hold it out for
him. Huge metal ﬁngers take the device. “A good show.”
Apollonius stands in silence as I forage from the dead. I
am far clumsier outside the Mind’s Eye, but I fear the toll it
would take to sustain it. I may die in the desert, but if I
took his oﬀer, it would mean war against Atalantia and
Atlas. I would give legitimacy to his faction against theirs.
After Atalantia’s attempt to take Heliopolis, the Votum
might come over to me just to spite her. After Seraphina’s
death, the Rim might join Apollonius—they know his
martial worth—or they might declare war on Atalantia if my
testimony is…accusatory regarding Seraphina’s death.
I could ruin Atalantia if I went with Apollonius.
But what would that do to Gold? She is apparently our
best tactician, and despite Ajax’s cruelty, despite her
capricious vanity, I still love her as family. Ajax’s treachery
may still be his own. Moreover, Gold cannot aﬀord that
divide. Just as the worlds cannot aﬀord a man who wrecks
a planet simply to win a battle.
I may not be what I thought I was. This world itself may
just be a maze without a center. But I will not wait to die. I

will not wait to be bridled by another. I will go forward as I
see ﬁt.
I stand waiting for Apollonius to stop me after I’ve taken
all I need from the dead Golds. When he does not, I reach
for Seneca’s gravBoots. They are gone. Apollonius
chuckles.
“You don’t get everything you want, little seed.” He picks
some choice items from my haul for himself. “A good show,
says the hopeful autarch.” He pats my head. “Even if you
survive this walk, you can never best Darrow, if that is your
intent. He would climb up your blade to chew upon your
jugular. To best a living god, it is not enough to survive, nor
to eat of the ambrosia of conquest. Who would follow a
churlish princeling over that Slave made War? After all, you
have no sense of theater.” He claps me on the shoulder so
hard my teeth rattle. “Enjoy your walk. I will be watching.”
I walk north, blind, but blinded no more.
Uncertain of where I go, but certain of one thing. Ajax
abandoned me to the enemy. He tried to kill me, Darrow
tried to kill me, Seneca tried to kill me, the desert tried to
kill me, but I am still here. Pain the only proof I am not yet
dead. Be it one of anguish or joy, my life is mine. I have
earned it back.
And I have no intention of wasting it.

***EphraimThe burner's on its last legs as I tap it over the railing to

see the ash spiral down. I’ve done my bit and submitted a
full tactical brief regarding how the skuggi could neutralize
much of Quicksilver’s mine security. Now I watch the
braves prepare in the gymnasium of the Heart of Venus and
marinate in the guilt of being complicit to genocide.
I’m an old hand at briefs—in the legions, as an
investigator. They sit in digital folders and gather
electronic dust until they are deleted to cover the political
ass of whatever high-up gave the contrary go. “All analysis
supported my decision,” is their favorite line.
Valdir is Seﬁ’s varKjr. Her warlord. He’s used blunt-force
trauma to pound a legacy from Mars to Mercury—surviving
a decade that sent more than seventy percent of Seﬁ’s
commanders to Valhalla. He wants a frontal assault. So a
frontal assault it’ll be. No niggling brief from a mercenary
will dissuade him. It’ll work, I’m sure. With the hard-boiled
legions the Heart is packing, even the Citadel of the

Republic might fall. But it will turn so many civilians and
backline Republic troops into meat confetti that Mars will
loathe them for centuries. The faceless future dead make
me think of the sounds my boys made as they were skinned
on Luna. It makes my hand shake for Z. That won’t be the
end of the killing. It’ll be the beginning. Only famine is
uglier than occupation.
What would Volga say if I told her this was the price of
her life?
I rub my temple, trying to ease the vibrations of the hot
drill digging into my brain.
I’m just destined to be a footman to devils, I guess.
I light another burner.
It goes down before I know it.
Below, Obsidians study Quicksilver’s robots—machines
meant to kill blood and bone. I wouldn’t face them for
anything in the world.
“You’ve been avoiding me.” I look over to see Pax coming
from a gravLift.
“Consolation isn’t my thing,” I reply.
He peers over the railing without expression. He’s grown
harder since I took him from that Lionguard shuttle. How
could he not? Braga and his other bodyguard amble behind
him. They watch me without much appreciation. I’m
emblematic of their Queen’s New Way.
“I guess even a warrior race has to concoct new ways to
die,” I mutter. “Death by axe has to get tedious after a
while.” I twirl a new burner.
“You think it’s going to be a massacre.”
“Either in the taking or the keeping. Don’t you?”
He doesn’t respond immediately. “I don’t know
everything. What I do know is that the Obsidians will
defend Cimmeria better than Quicksilver ever did, maybe

even rebuild it. Might be better for the Reds this way. Seﬁ
knows the danger of letting them boil over. They’ll
outnumber her people a hundred to one. When Atalantia
comes…maybe they’ll stand together. Even if they don’t…I
don’t know. Maybe the Obsidians have earned this day
more than anyone.”
“Cimmeria is just one continent.” I reply. “The richest in
helium, sure, but Apollonia is the heart of Mars. Agea will
go into a frenzy. This is civil war within a civil war. The
death of the Republic. Without helium—”
“No, Obsidian is a land power. They’ll have to trade the
helium for it to be worth anything. If the Obsidians get
Cimmeria and dig in, Agea will negotiate. And even if the
Vox have my mother, my tribe is resilient. Victra’s still out
there. Telemanuses…maybe.” He goes quiet. “They’ll ally
with Obsidian to face Atalantia.”
“If the Vox don’t eat the Republic.”
“Yes.”
He’s written oﬀ his father on Mercury then. Without the
Sovereign to lead a rescue ﬂeet, they’re as good as dead.
“Do you think your mother knew about this?” I ask.
He sighs. “I don’t know. Judging by the scale of the
operation, I assume she had to. Subtlety isn’t Seﬁ’s
strength, and she doesn’t know all my mother’s tools. So
the fact that it’s reached this point means either Victra
clued my mother in, Sevro did, or she just found out
because she’s her. Was her.” He rolls his jaw, looking ten
times his age. He’s been diﬀerent since he discovered his
mother’s demise. While Electra has squawked on and on
about revenge, he’s just gone quiet. Of course Hatchetface
thinks life is just a substance to be pushed through. With a
brain like Pax’s, he’s already guessed there’s nowhere to
push. It’s just a hard road to a cliﬀ, with all the good ones
falling over it far too quick.

“You want to talk about it?” I ask.
“No.” We stand in silence for a while. “Don’t,” he says
when he hears my intake of breath. I lean forward and light
another burner and oﬀer him one.
“I’m eleven.”
“So, we beat cancer, remember?”
He shrugs and takes the burner, holding it like it’s
straight black smack. I light it for him. “Mother would kill
me.”
“Thought your da was the killer.”
“He wouldn’t notice.”
“Come on. Petty doesn’t look good on you. Least your da
is slick. Mine was just a horny grunt who passed his seed
for a ten-K bonus. Keep the legions strong.” I snort.
I don’t like seeing Pax like this. It depresses me. I should
say something interesting, but I can’t think of something he
wouldn’t just shoot down. All right. Let’s get real.
“Met a man once,” I say as Pax becomes a cloud. He
doesn’t cough. Good on him. Neither did I. “Wasn’t much
younger than you. It was before the Legion Ward House got
ahold of me. Was a lookout for the local tough, when I
heard they were selling ice frizeé down by the Light Plaza.
You know that mound. Heroes’ Plaza or whatever now.” He
nods. “Anyway. Got caught stealing said frizeé and was
gonna get cuﬀed real bad by the local urbanes, when a man
piped up for me. Said I was with him. The urbanes gave
him one look, a long salute, and went on their way. He was
a Gray. Looked such a legend, leaning on the fountain like
he owned it. Had a Titan Rain badge on his chest, a
shattered Rhea beneath, a shower of golden teardrops on
his face, inky in Legio XIII blacks. You weren’t around then,
but even Golds gave that sort a nod.” I roll my burner in my
hands. “Smoked that burner like the unimpressed footman
of a god. I remember that clear as day. Jove, he looked

slick. He gave me my ﬁrst. Like I’m giving you yours. I
asked him if he was a hero, and he looked me dead in the
eyes”—Pax looks over—“and he said, ‘Fuck heroes, kid. It’s
all about being slick enough to squeak through. That’s the
last man standing.’ Took that to heart. And here I bloody
am.”
“And what’s that supposed to teach me?” he asks. “Be an
asshole?”
“I dunno. Don’t be like your folks, I reckon. It ain’t on you
to save the world. They were some impressive people, all
told. I ain’t saying you’re not. But they was them, and look
where they are.” I set a hand on his shoulder. “I want you
to get old, that’s all.”
“Why? I’m just a mark to you.”
“Everyone’s a mark to someone. Bet you a pretty credit,
Seﬁ’s someone’s mark.” I hold the smoke in my lungs until
they tighten. “Guess I’m telling you because age doesn’t
look good on me. But I think it’ll look good on you. That’s
all. That’s the pep talk.”
He looks back down at the braves. “You’re shit at pep
talks.”
“Yeah, well, maybe that’s why I’m alive, and why you’re
wearing Trigg’s ring.” He plays with the chain. “He was as
good as we get. Just a shish kebab in the end.”
“My father wishes he knew him better,” Pax murmurs.
“You don’t have to pander.”
“Truly. Say what you want about my da, but don’t ever
think he doesn’t notice his men. It’s the best thing about
him. When they go, it breaks him.”
“Well, he’s the one givin’ the orders.”
“Someone has to.” He looks at the ﬁre of the burner as it
works its way through the tobacco. “I don’t hate him. I
mean I do, but I don’t. If that makes sense. I hate him for
leaving for Venus, but not for Mercury. At his best, he’s how

men should be. So maybe that means it’s the world that’s
ﬂawed.”
“That’s the damn truth.”
We lean and smoke in silence. He really is a good egg. I
don’t give a shit about Seﬁ’s instructions to brown-nose
him. If she tells me to use him, I’ll pop her between those
black eyes.
“Grarnir. It is time.” Pax and I jump at the voice. Neither
of us noticed Ozgard sneak up behind us. For once he’s not
in good humor. The shaman’s eyes are rimmed with ash.
“The kjr assemble for the Kjrdakan. As aefe, you must join.”
I squint at him. “The what for the what as what?”
“You’re letting a Gray into the Kjrdakan?” Pax asks in
shock. “The Lord Wager,” he explains to me. “The Volk’s
war ritual before important battles. My father was the ﬁrst
person not of the Volk to join one. He was an aefespakr—a
wise planner. It’s an honor.”
“Seﬁ accepted my plan?” I ask Ozgard, dumbfounded.
“Not Valdir’s?”
He laughs at me. “Grarnir is blind. Still he does not see.
Freihild and skuggi are already en route back to Mars. We
press for Phobos for transfer to ore haulers.” He pauses,
black eyes searching mine. “Come. Kjrdakan awaits.”
Pax understands the seismic statement Seﬁ is making
choosing the plan of a Gray outsider to that of her most
successful warlord. It is a declaration of change, and a
choice on her part to pick risk over slaughter. Entirely too
civilized to be true. But it is also spitting in her lover’s eye
while putting me directly in the cross ﬁre between them.
Valdir will be pissed.
More than a little worried, I ﬂick my burner away and
follow Ozgard. Pax grabs my arm before I get far.
“Whatever you do, don’t bleed into the rib cage.”
“Huh?”

“If the campaign fails and you’ve given a blood wager,
you’re killed in ritual homicide.”
“Yeah. I’m going to need a few more details. Walk and
talk, kid. Walk and talk.”
—
Incense burns from braziers on the stage of the opera
house where Amel was butchered. It’s so thick my eyes itch
back to the retinal nerves. I shift foot-to-foot in my place in
the circle of towering war leaders as a giant albino aurochs
with twisted horns is led onto the stage by Ozgard’s
acolytes. Seﬁ approaches the muscled cow with an axe the
size of a tree on her shoulder. I cross my arms and settle in
to watch the pagan absurdity.
Seﬁ tightens the glove on her right hand and crouches to
peer into the beast’s eyes with the tattoos on her closed
eyelids. Apparently it only takes a minute to see the
aurochs’s “spirit.” She whispers some alien sacrament that
sounds like a pressure release on a gas riﬂe, and then rears
back with the axe and splits its skull down the center in a
tremendous blow. Blood sprays on my boots. The blade is so
long it divides the aurochs’s neck halfway down the spine. I
watch in mild horror as the beast shudders and sways and
crashes to the ﬂoor, spurting blood everywhere.
Seﬁ reaches into both sides of the split beast’s head and
rips out its tongue to show that it has been divided in half.
Impossible precision.
The Obsidians rattle approval with the torcs on their left
arms as Seﬁ hands one half of the grisly appendage to her
varKjr, Valdir. The two eat the tongue raw, staring at each
other with feverish enthusiasm that borderlines on erotic.
My stomach twists as blood and juice trickle down their
chins.
Seems excessive.

But these maniacs are just getting started.
As the dead beast twitches on the ﬂoor, Ozgard cavorts
around it in some mad, spasmodic dance that would be
funny if anyone but an Obsidian did it. The great folds of
his skin ripple and ﬂap as he waves his arms and shakes his
bare torso. An atavistic song rumbles from the back of his
throat. His circuit increases in speed, until the aurochs’s
hooves no longer scrape the ground. When it is still,
Ozgard walks one more circuit. His footprints in the blood
have made an intricate, spiraling shield glyph for
protection.
Utter nonsense.
Then the vynKjr—Valdir’s four wind lords—come forward
to each take a leg and together roll the aurochs on its back,
where Ozgard slices open its belly and butterﬂies its torso.
He takes a black jar full of Jove knows what and ﬁlls his
mouth before spitting it down on the aurochs’s organs. Two
hatchets appear in his hands and he smashes them
together until their sparks catch on his spittle. A ﬁre
mushrooms in the belly of the beast. Its organs crackle. The
fat under its hide catches ﬁre and curls the white hair. Soon
it is a conﬂagration. Flames dance over the faces of the
Obsidian war leaders as they chant together.
Not even the incense can keep the claws of the burning
intestines and liver from scouring the backs of my eyes.
Tears stream down my face. At least the Syndicate were a
familiar fright.
They chant until the ﬁre subsides and leaves nothing but
charred tissue and marrow leaking out of cracked bones.
The rib cage of the aurochs curves outward and reaches
upward like a pair of fossilized hands.
Ozgard crouches amongst the steaming debris and lifts
his arms, shouting some nonsense in Nagal about a
prophecy of fortune in the ﬁrebones. He then asks for the
Kjrdakan. The Lord Wager. It starts with the vagKjr—the

lowest-ranking wing lords. Two women, dressed in more
modern garb, drop strands of hair into the rib cage.
Wagering their honor against the battle’s success. Their
hair will be shorn in failure and they will lose their ranks
and become braves who must earn command all over again.
A bold wager, and the one Pax recommended I take. Then
the third, a man in tribal garb, looks at me, looks at Valdir,
then Seﬁ, and drops a single golden torc. There’s silence.
Seﬁ looks like she’s about to murder the man. Only Pax’s
rushed lecture on the way here saves me from turning
around in bewilderment. It’s the lowest form of wager. A
single torc. A fraction of battle honor.
An insult is what it is. Some of them don’t believe in this
gambit.
As all the male vagKjr, then some of the higher-ranking
vynKjr, give their meager wagers, I realize why. I could give
a shit if they don’t like Seﬁ’s plan for modernization or her
betrayal of the Republic. But the men are protesting me.
Calling my plan bullshit. With each clattering torc and
arrogant giant, I ﬁnd my insides heating up at the
professional insult. Barely oﬀ the ice, and already superior
to me. These savage idiots.
When Valdir throws in a single torc as well, I nearly
leave. He spits on the ﬂoor in my direction. Ozgard
translates his Nagal for me.
“You are noman,” he echoes. “No aefespakr for the Volk.
You are parasite. You have nothing to teach us but
weakness.” He looks at Seﬁ and lifts his chin to expose his
throat. “You are my Queen. I stood against Gold with
Nakamura, Arkadius, Vesuvian. Noble Grays. But this…dog
belongs in gutter. His scheme will fail. And skuggi will die
for nothing.” He slaps his arms. “We must show strength,
not tricks, if we are to betray our oaths.”
His supporters, mostly men, rattle their torcs in
agreement.

Seﬁ does not reply. It is a sort of betrayal I’m not sure I
understand completely.
Ozgard gives me a little nudge forward to make my
wager. Valdir’s protesters laugh in derision as I pull a piece
of hair, and they mutter there is no honor for a thief to risk.
The anger boils up in me mighty fast. These uppity
barbarians. Laughing at me. They don’t even know what a
rhetorical question is.
“You all know what I did,” I say, turning and looking at
the giants in their obstinate black eyes. “I stole those Gold
spawn twice. You just scraped us up like vultures. And you
call me a parasite? I was a Son of Ares when you were still
in the dark age, shitheads. I hunted Peerless while you
were still serving them or pulling your people oﬀ the Poles.
But you call me a dog? Fair enough. Spit on my honor. I
don’t give a damn. But don’t you ever! Ever! Insult my
work.”
I jab my hand against a fragment of rib cage bone. Bright
blood leaks out the meat of my palm. I hold it over the rib
cage and let it dribble down. The Obsidians are stricken
with confusion. Even Valdir looks like he swallowed a turd.
Having seized the greatest claim to valor if today is a
victory, I stalk back to my place as the Obsidians murmur,
and some put their hands to their foreheads in signs of
respect. Ozgard whispers in my ear.
“Your faith inspires me.” He’s mocking me.
The hangover of regret comes hard and fast. The anger
ﬂoods out. It wasn’t just memories Z protected me from. It
was always myself. Always the overcompensating pride of a
street dog who can’t bear to be laughed at, so he buys nice
suits, drains his account on fashionable ﬂats, yaps at
monsters, gambles with people who can aﬀord to lose. Well,
Volga would be laughing her ass oﬀ now.

The Obsidians quiet as Seﬁ walks to the rib cage. She
plays with her long hair, then gives me a sinister smile and
very casually draws a dagger to slice a chunk of ﬂesh from
her left forearm to toss into the ribs and match my wager.
When she speaks, she does so to Valdir in Common. “My
way in victory. My head in defeat.”
After the Obsidians depart, Seﬁ stands watching the
remains of the bones smolder. “You will not be with your
skuggi. They must move faster than you can follow.” I nod,
happy with that. “You know you will be killed if we fail?”
“Seems we both will.”
“Pride blinds,” she says. “But sometimes it leads.” She
sets a heavy hand on my shoulder. “I know our ways are
strange to you, but hard ways are necessary to govern wild
spirits. If we win, you will be my guest at the Hunt of the
Last Light. You will have much treasure. You will be
honored. They do not see your worth. But I do, Horn. I see
fear in you. Most run from that fear. But you, you spit in its
face.” She lowers her face to mine. “As do I. As do I.”

***EphraimWarships rove over the birthplace of the Rising.

“So ends the tale of Ephraim ti Horn. Ritually murdered
or atomized by a particle beam.” I stick my hands in my
pockets. “Lovely.”
The greatest heist of the war rumbles slowly into gear
and I’m pinned inside a fatass Julii ore hauler heading
toward Mars with no escape plan, no intel except what the
Obsidians give me, and no weapon, not even a wrench.
To put the olive on top, I’m stone-cold sober.
Far from kicking my Z habit, I must have begged half the
shadier-looking braves on the Heart of Venus for just the
dust of a cut gram. Seems Seﬁ put the word out. Not even
the former berserkers in their ranks will trade me some of
their Republic stimpacks.
I stare out the cramped bridge with doom squatting on
my spine. The lights are dim. The pilot, a crack ripper Blue
from Seﬁ’s allies, the Rho Sect, hunches like a Karachi
player in concentration over his controls even though a

mentally disenfranchised elephant could ﬂy this tub.
Behind him, Ozgard stands there stroking his braided
beard and eating walnuts without a care in the world. He’s
painted in his blue berry juice.
Idiot.
“You will not be ritually murdered or atomized,” Ozgard
replies. “The breath of the Allmother herself will carry you
to Valhalla.”
“Pass. I’ll take a nomadic island on Venus with limitless
Pinks.”
He turns. Behind the annoyance in his eyes is a
conﬁdence that leaps far past the border of sanity. “Is that
the depth of your soul?”
“Just the warm shallows.”
He sighs. “You will not die, tinman, because if you die,
we have failed, and Seﬁ too will die. She cannot die.”
“Let me guess, you saw her fate in the ﬁrebones.”
“Be careful not to insult a shaman on the eve of battle.”
He comes so close I can smell the eggs he had for breakfast
in his beard. “You do not know what I have seen.”
“No oﬀense, but I ﬁnd your faith a little disturbing.”
“Bah.” He reels away. “I ﬁnd your face disturbing. It is
soft. Like goat cheese. But I do not complain. You prepared
skuggi. You are good at what you do. So are they. To fret
now is seed of angst.”
Prepared. Please. Like a few weeks’ instruction will
ready them for this.
It would be so easy if Seﬁ didn’t want so many mines. We
could ﬂy the haulers into the mines’ loading docks and
pump Obsidians out. An old Reaper favorite. Problem is, to
do that, we’d have to land hundreds of haulers at the same
time at mines across a thousand-kilometer theater before
the mines go into lockdown. Quicksilver’s defense
computers would quickly see the breach and eviscerate us.

So a quarter of the mines will be taken that way. The rest
require more creative inﬁltration by the skuggi. As for the
hunterkiller defense robots? Well, there’s a reason the
Obsidians are in full armor.
If they follow my instructions, the skuggi and
Quicksilver-hating Reds will bypass the sensor grids in
retired tunnels, inﬁltrate the exhaust ducts, access the
power grid, and disable the anti-aircraft guns. Piece of pie.
But the skuggi aren’t even close to ready for this kind of
coordinated inﬁltration. I hear the steady drip drip drip of
the bloodbath ﬁlling up.
The Obsidians think I believe in Seﬁ enough to risk my
life on this gambit for the mines. It’s gained me some
respect from her bodyguard of Valkyrie, but not from
Ozgard. He knows I’m full of shit, because I’ve long
suspected he’s full of it too.
Ozgard sets his bag of walnuts on a gear box and leans
toward the pilot to whisper something. I pull out my
burners to settle my nerves and ﬁnd the pack empty. I left
my stash in Olympia. Damn. I grab one of his walnuts and
busy myself trying to open it as I stare out the duroglass.
The moon of Phobos and most of the remaining Republic
defense ﬂeet are on the opposite side of the planet now,
along with Volga. Ozgard eases back from the pilot and
nudges me.
“Have you seen a nightgaze upon the pole with your ﬂesh
eyes?” he asks.
“Never been to either pole. Restricted zones. Savage
locals.”
“Nightgaze are the most tender of the Ice’s life. They
grow only in darkness, but oh, the light they make of their
own ichor…They are truly a gift from the gods.”
“Gift from the gods.” I roll my eyes. “We’re ﬂying in a
spaceship. Your ancestors were made in test tubes. The

nightgaze by a drunk Violet. And you believe in gods? Hell,
I get the racket. For a man you’ve done right ﬁne by
yourself with the matriarchs. But stop trying to con a
conman.”
He shrugs, ignoring the insult.
“Human knowledge is small. Universe vast. Mystery
inﬁnite. My gods were true before they were stolen and
used against us. They are still true. And will be true long
after we are food for the—” He freezes as he sees the
walnut shells around my feet. His eyes ﬂare wide and he
grabs me, manhandling his ﬁngers down my throat. I ﬁght
against him until I sick up all over his chest. I shove him
and push too hard with my new leg, ﬂying backward into
the wall. I hit my spine on something sharp and hard.
“What the hell!” I gasp.
“You ate from my bag.”
“I’ll buy you another walnut, asshole.” I spit the bile out
and wipe it out of my goatee. “Jove on high. Who does
that!”
“Walnut?” He squints at me. “What is walnut, jackass?
These spirit berries from home. These for shaman only.”
I squint. “I thought spirit berries were berries…”
“No!”
“Oh, well…” I hiccup. “What’s spirit berries do?”
“To see spirits and hear gods.”
“Literally?” He’s threading his hands through his beard
in worry. It’s some sort of hallucinogen. That’s about all I
know. I look at my hands. Are they vibrating? The roof of
my mouth tastes like chalk and asparagus and ice cream.
“Will I die?”
He shrugs. “We will see!”
—

The walls turn to pulsing jelly as Ozgard leads me through
them like a drunk puppy. Seﬁ’s war council was a blurry
dream. All the orders fragmented in my head. If I focus on
anything longer than a moment, the world pulses between
reality and into some peculiar hidden fourth-dimensional
plane. Keep the eyes moving. Stay lucid, oldboy. Stay atop
the high.
You love drugs. You love drugs.
We enter the mouth of a beast. No, just a hangar, empty
of helium crates and ﬁlled with warriors. They vibrate like
dark teeth. My head is spinning. Whole body ﬂushed with
electricity. I’ve never liked psychedelics. Too little control.
Ozgard jerks me out of the way as a column of Valdir’s
Stormbreakers jog past us in gray heavy armor painted
with blue runes to load into the assault transports. A
goddess with a luminous headdress of white feathers ﬂoats
before a pack of Valkyrie in sky-blue armor. “Who is that!” I
cry.
“Seﬁ.”
“She looks fantastic!”
“Yes.”
“She’s going down herself? But there are killer robots!”
He looks at me and I almost scream. The shaman has
become a demon. His face is bright blue and his beard
smokes. Fire leaks out his eyes and his mouth rumbles an
orchestral thunder that is made of semisolid mutating
colors. “What if she dies?” I hear myself weeping. “What
happens if Seﬁ dies?”
“A queen that does not ride at the vanguard is no queen!”
he bellows as Valdir stomps past, looking as big as a
thunderhead. His hydra skull bubbles cruel laughter. “This
is not her death! I have seen the griﬀin ascend on Red
wings!”
“I mean what happens to me!” I cry.

“You are high, my friend! Have courage and ride the
tumult!”
His laugh is cruel and mocking, and when he looks at me,
lightning ﬂashes in the veins of his black eyes. The whole
world goes dark behind him and begins to tremble and
distort. I fall down. The hard steel jars me out of the
reverie. It’s just turbulence, you fool! Ozgard picks me up
like a toy and wraps my hand around a rung. “Stay and
witness the griﬀin rise!” He bats my arms away and runs
oﬀ toward Valdir and Seﬁ.
“Don’t leave me!” I moan. “Oh gods. Oh gods.” I curl up
on the ﬂoor as the monsters trample past. Stay atop the
high. Stay atop the high. I dive for safety into a pack of
crates. Armor. I try to strap it on. Too big. GravBoots. I
don’t want to fall into the ceiling. Lightning crackles there.
I strap the boots on. They’re huge, but the ankles manage
to lock high up on my calves. That’ll keep me safe. I grab
an insidious weapon from the wall. A riﬂe of unknown and
horrible power.
Oh Jove, what’s that?
Iridescent sea creatures from the depths of the ocean
swim through my eyes, mingling with the warriors. The
creatures disappear inside the metal bodies and entwine
their souls with the savages the world thought to tame. A
dark torrent streams from their mouths and forms a
crackling cloud of lightning and unruly thunder over their
snowy heads. The song! The death chant of the Obsidians!
I’ve heard it before in the ruins of Luna, but not like this.
Not ever like this.
I don’t just hear it.
I feel it. The vibrations grip my bones with their terrible
beauty.
Before the soldiers of the gods, Ozgard takes a creature
from a pouch and lets it bite his tongue before devouring it

whole. The chanting thickens. The clouds swirl. Suddenly
he throws oﬀ his cloak. He is naked beneath, his whole
body painted blue, manhood swinging between his legs like
a pendulum of power. He roars a horrible creed as he walks
through the Obsidians, his arms uplifted, stomping his
gravBoots. The Obsidians join him in stomping so that it
feels like the heartbeat of a dead world awakening.
“Baga duna!!!!” he screams, and throws down his arms.
“Duna ﬁel!” Valdir and Seﬁ scream at him.
The hangar doors retract. Freezing wind pours in like the
breath of a cold god, and Seﬁ is baptized in moonlight
ahead of her bloodguard Valkyrie. Valdir and his
worldbreakers slam their heads together. I close my eyes,
praying for it to end. Knowing it isn’t real. Am I real? Am I
real? The darkness seeks to swallow me. “Witness!” It
rumbles to me in Ozgard’s voice. Terriﬁed, I open my eyes,
squinting into the maelstrom of wind.
“Njar la tagag, syn tjr rjyka!” Ozgard shouts.
The Obsidians echo him.
He points at Seﬁ and Valdir and ﬂails his face,
summoning the demon from the Queen and her mate.
“Hyrg la Ragnar!” they scream, and the Queen of the
Valkyrie and Valdir the Unshorn run forward, two dark
blades cutting through the light of the moon. Their acolytes
follow in a blue and gray tide, jumping out the back of the
ship in tight, beautiful martial lines that’d make any Gray
proud. The assault shuttles follow.
Boots over the edge of the ship door, Ozgard laughs
uncontrollably. Possessed. As if this were all his making,
and he were a god overjoyed with the ﬁdelity of his
children. He points to me and reels my soul toward him. I
clutch my terrible riﬂe tight and abandon my safety. As his
arms wrap around me where the ﬂoor ends, I feel my terror
ﬂee and the evil in him disappears. My jacket whips in the

wind. My pants are pierced with freezing air. But I feel
nothing but warmth and love and acceptance from his
laughter and from his naked body as we stand together
overlooking the face of a living world.
“See!” he roars. “See! Do you see with your spirit eyes?”
Mars is captured in twilight. Her two moons watch us on
the horizon. Beneath our metal feet is a great white shield
mountain of northern Cimmeria. It seems the head of a
giant standing with his feet warmed by the molten core of
his world.
The city of Nike sweeps from his northwest shoulder
toward the sea like a cape of stardust. Explosions ﬂash in
the city near its spaceport. Across the landscape, lumps of
metal lit by lights hunch in the gloom like little lonely
goblins. Mines. They spit no ﬁre. Only their warning sirens
ﬂicker, staining the ground red. Their sky guns are down.
It’s working! Triumph swells in me. The skuggi did it.
Freihild lowered the defense grid. That beautiful maniac.
It’s working!
I’m not going to be executed!
Ore freighters on the horizon drop assault shuttles and
airborne Obsidian over the winter landscape, over the
shield mountain, and along the plains, spitting Seﬁ’s
children down on the mines my plan and the skuggi
prepared for them. The Republic defense ﬂeet won’t be
able to react. Quicksilver’s missiles streak up out of the
mountains from hidden installations, but Alltribe ripWings
swing down to silence them. All the colors dance in a wild,
vivid frenzy. The ground, the sky, the ships, the mines, the
air itself, are alive with spiritual ﬁre. This is the domain of
the Obsidian. A world within an unseen world.
Beneath the hallucination, I feel the beauty and
inevitability of this day.

For ten years, the Obsidians were to the Republic as
Volga was to me. Doggedly carrying the weight of all the
rest. Only to be denied the fruits of their labor. Fight, the
little ones said to them. Kill for us, Valdir. Leave your
homeland, but have none of our land, Seﬁ. Don’t shop in
our stores, Volga. Don’t stand too tall, Volga. Because we
are afraid of you.
Well, a pox on hypocrites one and all. They had their
chance, and now the Queen of the Valkyrie has come for
their helium mines. I ﬁnd myself proud of them as I laugh
with the mad shaman, because in all this stupid, greedy
world, the spirit comes alive when you see someone say, no
more.
“Do you see!” Ozgard shouts beside me with tears in his
eyes. His face is like that of a child, not a monster. “We
have come home! Do you see! This is our Volkland!”
“Yes!” I proclaim, pumping my dread riﬂe in the air.
“Yes!” He pushes me back and says he must join. “Yes!” I
shout. “We must!” He bellows at me, and only after I jump
oﬀ the edge of the transport ramp do I realize he bellowed
at me to stay, that I wear no armor. But I do not care,
because the gods protect me. He has seen my fate in the
ﬁrebones, and I do not die here from the missiles that
streak past me. I do not die from the railgun rounds that
tear apart the sky. I ﬂy toward a pack of falling Valkyrie,
screaming for the glory of the Obsidian people and all their
justiﬁed vengeance. I fall in amongst them. Armored
women and men look at me. They gesture with eyes wide
through bone helmets. They are laughing.
“Onward, Valkyrie!” I scream as wind pulls my lips back
from my teeth. My gravBoots accelerate with a twist of my
toes, and I dive toward the vanguard, streaking past Seﬁ
and Valdir, ﬁlled with righteous glory as I tear toward the
burning mouth of an open mine, unscathed through

tongues of ﬁre, and pierce the crust of the world to land
amongst towering behemoths of metal.
They turn their glowing evil red eyes toward me, and I
laugh when they do not ﬁre, for I am a spirit warrior and I
point my riﬂe at them, pull the trigger, and shit down my
leg, because I am alone amongst a pack of hunterkiller
robots and it is no riﬂe in my hand, it is only a mop.
Then Seﬁ and Valdir land, and the world goes mad.

During war, the laws are silent.
—QUINTUS TULLIUS CICERO

***LysanderI run through the water I

stole from Ajax’s assassins in
two days. Though heatstroke is unlikely due to my
physiology, dehydration plagues me and obscures even the
most basic mental and motor functions.
Though my eye was not blinded by the ﬁrebrand due to
avoiding its core ﬂare, my vision is dreadfully impaired.
Three times I nearly lose my way when the features of
the desert mislead me and I lose sight of the mountains.
But I keep as straight a path north as I can, knowing I must
eventually run into Erebos if I stay along the mountains.
I could not accept Apollonius’s help, but I might ﬁnd
some unaﬀiliated aid in Erebos. If I recover enough, I can
decide how to reach Atalantia without chancing Ajax’s
interference.
I eat the meat of cacti, and suck the water from desert
lotus, but I feel myself fading. I ﬁnd myself wishing I were
back on the Archi, listening to Cassius and Pytha bicker as

I lie reading in my bunk. I wish Kalindora were with me,
that she hadn’t assumed I died.
I wish Seraphina had simply stepped to the right.
Only my anger at the desert itself keeps me going.
Everything seems like a bleached mirage now. The sun is a
malevolent fat troll that squats over the desert, burning any
uncovered skin in ﬁfteen minutes and punishing me when I
dare walk in the day. I sweat and sleep when I can ﬁnd
shade, and walk through the mornings when the playa is
barren of grace. On my fourth day, I ﬁnd the rotting carcass
of a glass leviathan somehow swept in from the sea. The
translucent ﬂesh of the giant sea creature writhes with
clouds of predatory bloodﬂies and a wake of buzzards thick
enough to blot out the sky. I steer well around it.
When the northern storm sweeps rain showers over the
desert, I lie down in joy to let it soothe my mangled face
and the razor cuts Seneca and his men opened on my
thighs and hip.
Mercury is a lovely planet, with temperate coasts, and
mountain hotels, and hot springs, and cool valleys, and
coral seas, but to have all that, it had to have the hell of the
Ladon around its equator.
I curse the bastards that terraformed this planet. I curse
the rocks. I curse the sun, the sand, myself for needing so
much gorydamn water. And I curse Ajax. But more so, I
curse the culture that let him grow wicked.
The Peerless scar was formalized by Silenius to mark a
Gold worthy of respect, not worship. Our rigorous
Institutes were built to educate us to be shepherds, not
cannibals. The world provided Darrow to show us how far
we’d lost our way. To ﬁght him, we did not ﬁnd our path
again, we strayed further and further, learning all the
wrong lessons.

Gradually, the desert gives way to a semi-arid climate as
I make my way to more northern latitudes. The transition is
subtle, barely noticeable at ﬁrst. But even the smallest
signs of life give me hope. Torrential rain has eroded
hillsides but also seduced weeds and ﬂowers to spring out
of the rocky soil. My vision returns enough in my right eye
to see green interspersed with brown. The ground is still
unforgiving and spartan, but the worst danger is over.
Where there is water, anyone can survive. Deerling with
spiraling black antlers and birds shaped like faeries feed oﬀ
the orange berries of gnarled geran shrubs only to zip
home to their hivecastles amidst cacti the size of houses.
While I haven’t the strength to hunt either with my razor, I
eat as many berries as I can ﬁnd amongst the thistles,
never minding the cramps the excess ﬁber causes in my
belly. I eat grubs from underneath boulders, and swallow
the yolks of bird eggs I ﬁnd in low shrubs. Tubers and roots
make the bulk of my diet, which causes more cramps, until
I ﬁnd a sulfur viper basking in the sun beneath a dead olive
tree. I crush its head with a rock and drink its blood,
knowing my immune system will likely handle the
pathogens it carries. The mild nausea is well worth the
valuable vitamins. When I’ve drained it, I roast its meterlong body over a ﬁre. Its meat is tough and elastic, like
langsat ﬂesh, but the calories give me fresh optimism as I
make my push toward Erebos.
Pausing on a ridgeline that leads to a fertile valley, I look
back at the desert one last time. It waits there in the
distance, patient, eternal, the graveyard of armies. But not
me.
I turn my back on it, but carry its lessons with me.
The next kilometers are almost pleasant. While the
temperature hovers around ﬁfty degrees Celsius in the
morning, frequent showers from the roiling clouds keep me

cool and soothe the agony of my burn. Birds twitter in
orderly citrus groves, which I eat heavily from as I pass.
Following the tracks of an abandoned combine, I ﬁnd a
shed and a small farmhouse that looks to have been
abandoned in haste. It has been looted at least once, and
I’m unable to ﬁnd medical supplies. But in the garden, I
ﬁnd an aloe plant, which I’m able to distill into a paste for
my burn. It takes the sharp edge oﬀ the itching sting, but
does little for the deep nerve trauma, and nothing at all for
my eye, which throbs down to the very root of the ocular
nerve.
—
The power is out in the farm, but it is nice having a puzzle
to solve that doesn’t include imminent death. In a few
hours I’m able to rig the solar panels of the combine to
work with the stove, on which I cook dry-pressed curry
from a freshcan. I also manage to power the ancient HC in
the living room. The HC won’t link with the holoNet, and
instead shows only a Society emergency broadcast
message, giving instructions for all citizens to evacuate
Erebos and the surrounding lands for Naran, a hundred
kilometers northeast.
I think of the tight showers on the Archi as I draw myself
a bath. I slip into the cold water and shudder. It is the most
pleasant thing I have experienced since the caldarium with
Cassius. My legs are too long for the tub and splay out
awkwardly against the fraying wallpaper. It’s only then I
realize how much weight I’ve lost. Twenty kilos maybe? My
body looks like it belongs to a rust lung victim. It is
emaciated, any skin exposed to the sun swollen and
peeling. I doze lightly in the bath for hours. After drinking
another liter of water, I collapse onto the formaFab bed and
sleep for an entire day.

I set back out two mornings after arriving at the farm. I
have changed the tattered pulseArmor underlining for the
farmer’s clothing. I look ludicrous, the sleeves barely
coming to my elbows, and the pants to my shins.
I look back at the farm, sorry to leave it, and wonder for
a moment if I shouldn’t just stay there. What am I rushing
back to? A future as Atalantia’s rival? A duel with Ajax
when he must face what he has done? A short life of politics
and betrayal? Revenge which I don’t want, even after
Darrow took half my face? To be with my people? Why?
Gold has grown sicker in my absence. But even knowing all
that, there is still an undeniable itch to return, as if my
spirit were drawn by gravity.
I need to realize the promise I made to Dido, the excuse I
gave to Cassius when I betrayed him. I must unite Gold.
More than that. I must change it. That is what makes me
leave the farmhouse behind. That and the understanding
that I must help liberate Kalindora, Rhone, and the
Praetorians from Heliopolis. It would be immoral not to
help those who risked all for me. By the good repair of
Seneca’s gear, it seems the Ash Legions weren’t broken
entirely. An invasion will be coming for Heliopolis. One I
doubt my friends will survive.
The walk to Erebos is leisurely compared with the desert.
I cut through groves of wild cypress, and orchards redolent
with the smell of starheart blossoms. At times I see
hovercraft on the horizon, or the occasional Society patrol
in the lower atmosphere. Though black clouds brood to the
north, the worst of the storm seems to have passed.
I pace myself, stopping frequently to gorge on the food I
foraged from the farmhouse and the pack of tangerines
pulled from the trees. My route takes me parallel to the Via
Gloria, the white frictionless highway that connects the
cities that border the Ladon by land. It is broken by

bombardment and littered with blackened Republic assault
vehicles and desiccated corpses.
I sleep under a grapefruit tree and the next morning
come across a family of sunbaked Red natives walking
along a country road pushing a cart full of their life’s
belongings. They watch me approach with unease. I greet
them politely and comment on the weather, as Mercurians
always do. They look at each other, then up and up at me
and my melted face, and then they bow.
“Odd weather, yes, dominus,” the man says quietly.
“Devil weather,” the woman says with a little more heat,
much to her man’s distress. “Greedy Martian thought he
could break our spirit. Not this spirit, dominus,” the woman
says. “A little weather won’t tame us.”
“Darrow you mean?”
“Don’t even give him a name, dominus,” she says bitterly.
“His men ransacked our employer’s latifundia. Took him
away, saying he harbored the Fear Knight—Vale bless the
man. Did it all with smiles, of course, but when they were
done, what’ve we got left? Just what they left us. We work
for our share. We don’t take the pity of Martian
marauders.” She spits. “Latifundia went to bits. Our
headTalk started running the place, but no one ever came
for the haul. It’s just sitting out there rotting. You with the
legions?” she asks. “You look like you’ve seen Hades itself,
dominus.”
I scan the road behind her. “Only its gatekeepers.”
“If there’s anythin’ you desire…” Her eyes dart to my
burned face and she waves to her cart, again to her
husband’s distress. They barely have enough for
themselves.
“Just information. Have you seen any Society forces?” I
ask.

“Fear Knight’s men were through here not too long ago,
dominus. Never know where you can ﬁnd them, though.
Like Vale spirits they are. Rest of the legions are out to the
east last I heard. A bastion’s set down. Hear there be Ash
Legions in Naran. It’s ﬂooding with refugees from Tyche
and the coast. Poor souls. Whole city’s gone. We’re heading
east to the riverlands, hear they’re hiring folk out there for
the cleanup.”
“There’s no legions in Erebos?” I say in confusion.
“Erebos? It’s drowned, dominus,” the man says.
I frown. The waves couldn’t have come this far. “What do
you mean, drowned?”
—
By late morning, I summit a hill that looks down into the
Valley of Erebos, and see for myself.
Erebos was a proud library city once, a serene and
bucolic vanity created as a gift for my grandmother by the
Master Maker Glirastes. The high city, all in thrall to the
great library, was hewn from the back of a low mountain
just beneath a great dam. The dam protected the city from
seasonal ﬂoods caused by the melting of mountain snow, a
quick aﬀair under Mercury’s sun. When I saw it as a child
at Glirastes’s side, I deemed it a giant turtle with a vinewrapped city upon its back. He grumbled that it was a
tortoise representing the patience and inevitable victory of
knowledge.
Now it is a watery necropolis.
The great dam has broken, the pulseﬁelds likely failing
during the storm. The rush of water left a path of
destruction across the city so thorough it would be a
wonder if anyone survived. Carrion birds rule here now.
There are no medical teams from either army, only bands of
refugees across the ﬂooded valley and plains beyond,

trundling north in lines by the thousands. I sit down, ﬁnally
feeling the exhaustion of the last week in my bones.
Darrow has broken the planet.
A sense of futility rises in me. What could anyone do to
ﬁx this?
Resolving to reﬁll my water and connect with one of the
refugee trains, I stumble down the foothills, passing
through forests entirely scalped by the wind. Not a tree
stands. I wade through ﬁelds of lavender, where bees still
pollinate, and draw to a halt. At the foot of the Via Gloria a
peculiar arrangement sprawls around the Arch of Octavia,
which leads into the city. Even with my blurry vision, I
know what it is.
I walk down the hill.
There beside the great archway, I ﬁnd a scene of horror.
Amongst a sea of lavender, the remains of more than four
hundred humans hang upon metal poles blistering and
naked but for the wake of buzzards that clothe them in
feathers of yellow and scarlet.
The poles that puncture the humans are as thick as my
wrists, sharp at the point and tapered. Each has been
driven into the anal cavity of the victim to the point of
perforating the mid-torso. In death, the legs droop, the
back arches, the arms wing out and downward, and the
head reclines backward, as if each victim perished in
exultation. Sockets picked clean by the birds stare at the
sky.
A great hunk of stone stands at the entry to this atrocity
bearing the message:

Here lie Martians all

Thralls of the Slave King

Who thought with wicked delight
to take your planet’s treasure
and break their Master’s might
All ye who enter here:
witness their work,

and despair

The ﬂooded city is their work. And the impalement ours.
Is this what the Society thinks will inspire the people to
return to the fold?
Atlas was no monster in the court of my grandmother. He
was odd. Always rather cold to me, and quick to leave the
room when I entered. He despised children. Though he and
Aja made Ajax together, their coupling entailed no
relationship from what I understand. In fact, Aja could
barely stand the sight of the man. But I cannot believe my
father’s best friend would be this new monster.
Though he was formally a hostage, my grandmother
trusted Atlas without equal. He spurned galas and festivals,
and seemed only to stir himself from his library when my
grandmother required his unique services. What they were,
I never saw until now.
I have always held in respect those Golds who do not
relish their station. Atlas never seemed to. Yet he has let his
Gorgons loose in ways that demean any claim we have to
dignity. So my judgment on him is harsh.
I stumble down the line to see the faces of the dead,
thinking obscurely that someone should witness them here.
All the families they represent. All the strands of life that
are linked to theirs. Cruelty will travel down those lines,
ensnaring more and more.
No one has come to take them down. No footprints have
even come within a hundred meters. There is a whispering.
It comes from a young Red man.
A sound comes from one of the Red bodies. A whispering.
He is alive. Barely more than a boy, a faint bit of hair
covers his top lip. His cracked lips part, trying to say
something more. I give him the remaining water from my

pouches. Most of it spills down his chest. He tries to speak
again. I edge closer to hear him. “The…Vale. Send me…”
It’s then I notice perhaps as many as a dozen still
wheeze, their burned skin rising and falling with each
insidious breath. I do not care if they are enemies. If
impaling is an eﬀective tactic. Or even if they deserve this
judgment. It is not the jurisdiction of any man to deliver it.
I go closer to the boy. My mouth is so dry I barely
manage the words. “Are you certain?” He cannot reply until
I spill some of my water into his mouth.
“Send…me.”
There, so close to him I can see the ﬂecks of copper,
brown, and even gold in his Red irises, I feel a terrible
sadness. I wish I knew that the eyes of his spirit looked
upon his Vale. That his ancestors were waiting for him in
their cool highland valley. But I know it is not so, because I
know the Vale was created and cultivated by the Board of
Quality Control in order to provide an important
sociological prerequisite for obedience: a carrot at the end
of a hard life. That very same belief that made them able to
endure untold hardship in the mines has become a militant
faith. He begins to whisper as I draw my razor. “My love,
my love, remember the cries, when winter died…”
He is joined by the others until there is a rasping chorus
there upon the pale.
The Bellona razor’s leather hilt is warm from the sun.
Tension travels down my arm as the blade penetrates his
chest and then his heart. “Go to your people,” I whisper. He
jerks and then is still.
More men and women beg for mercy down the line. I
move to the next man. He’s an older Red, with a thick
beard shot with white and a face like a bulldog’s. He begs
for mercy, but when I stand in front of him, he and several

others begin to laugh. I blink in confusion. Their faces swim
in the heat. Why are they laughing?
“Burn with us, ya golden cunt,” he manages from a
mouth crusted with blood. “Burn with Mars.”
Then I understand the trick.
I do not move. I look down, knowing what it must be. I
push lavender out of the way and blow down into the dirt. A
thin mat of pressure-sensitive material lies under the
topsoil. If I move my foot, the mine hidden beneath will
make me a shower of meat. Even if I dive away, only two
mines of the hundreds this war employs have a blast radius
I’d be able to clear.
“I was trying to help you,” I say. “I was trying to be
decent.”
The Red just laughs through teeth shattered to the nerve.
Without a way to apply equal pressure to my weight on
the pad, I dig a small tunnel through the dirt adjacent to
the pad to reach the mine. Blindly reaching into the hole, I
graze the side casing of the munition. It’s a Lotus-13,
judging by the octagonal top rim. If I can slide my razor
between the pressure pad and the mine, I should be able to
sever the hardwire connection. With hands shaking from
adrenaline, I toggle the razor’s edge to the thinnest setting
possible, so the blade is narrow as a piece of paper, a
hand’s width wide. I slide it sideways down into the hole
and trip a countermeasure.
Bweeee. Bweeee.
Dirt and shredded lavender explode up into my face. I’m
blasted upward. I lose my razor. The air rushes out of me as
I land hard on my back. Something constricts around me,
ensnaring. I push at it, but it cuts my ﬁngers and the more I
push, the more it constricts. A tacNet, I realize in relief, not
an explosive.
But the relief is short-lived as I realize my predicament.

I lie there in the morning sun, the only shade cast by the
poles, the lavender stalks, and the bees. The meters to my
razor and water might as well be a thousand. Every time I
try to roll or wiggle closer, the net constricts more until it
breaks the skin of my scalp. Soon I am immobilized with
blood trickling down my face. For hours I lie there as the
sun traces its way across the sky, leeching my body of
water as it forms blisters on my exposed skin. I’m the color
of a tomato. The lavender sways. The bees buzz. The
buzzards chew. I drift in and out of consciousness, woken
only when the buzzards engage in a hearty squabble for a
choice piece of thigh meat. The Red man is dead. They feed
on him and watch me.
If I could laugh, I would.
Heir of Silenius, eaten by birds at the feet of Reds,
because he tried to be merciful. Lesson learned.
It was my guilt for the Vindabona and the helpless people
I left for the Obsidians that distracted me. I should have
known about the mines. I see those victims I abandoned
now on the hill, lying in tacNets, watching me with smiles,
waiting for me to join them in death.
All those lives lost so I could save Seraphina, who ran to
her own slaughter with a smile.
“Well, look at this, fresh catch,” one of the victims says to
me.
“And a blood traitor by the looks of it,” says another. “He
killed some of the bait.”
“Scar?”
Heavy desert boots stop in front of me. A child’s face
bends down from the sky and peers into mine. Something is
wrong. It is the color of a dust moth’s wings. Oh. It’s a
mask. Purple works its way into the mask as its wearer
crouches near the lavender. “He’s missing half his

gorydamn face. Eyeball’s all mush.” A gloved hand twists
my head. “No scar. We got ourselves a Pixie, lads.”
They’re Gorgons.
“Rising?”
“Who else? We don’t send unscarred boys to battle.”
“Let’s leave him to bubble. This trap’s done. Shit to show
for it. Stragglers are all herded into Heliopolis for the big
hammer.”
One of them whistles. “Look at the detailing on his big
iron. Sciantus-made, bet my life.”
“Slag oﬀ. How would you know what a Sciantus blade
looks like? You wouldn’t even be able to aﬀord the hilt.”
“The Minotaur had one. Treated it like a thirsty lady.
Always running his fat mouth about it. See the ﬂower
petals?”
“Where?”
“Over the wing.”
“If you say so. What’s a Pixie doing with a piece like
that?”
“If it don’t ﬁt, it’s Howler shit. Search him for trackers
and let’s ride. Fear’ll sort it.” The child’s face looks down at
me again as I try to speak. “Time to take a nap, traitor.”
The last thing I see is his boot coming down.

***LysanderThe Gorgons travel via gravbike. The

ride is long and
covers several hundred kilometers back the way I walked.
Back into the damn desert. In the late afternoon, they make
a stop in a high-desert town surrounding a large mine. I
watch tied to the back of a gravBike as lowColor townsfolk
run out to greet the butchers like heroes. Children run
along as we trail out of the town heading toward the
snowline of the mountains.
Clouds eddy across the darkening sky as the gravBikes
slow to go single ﬁle along a mountain track. We come to
an abrupt halt. Boots crunch the snow and something hits
me again on the head.
When I regain consciousness, I am cold and wet. The
ﬂoor is stone. I do not open my eyes yet. My hands are
chained above me, bracketed into the wall of a cave.
Streams run to either side. Hushed voices converse.
“He never asks us any questions. Never any. He just
takes something away. I told him all I could think of. I just

wanted it to stop.” The man sobs.
“Spare us your weeping, Hadrian. It’s bad enough
already without you bubbling like a Venusian harlot.”
“Let him be, Ignacius. We’ve all told him something,
Hadrian. It’s prime, brother.”
“He made…time slow down. Something he gave me. I
could feel every molecule as he took…as he…” The words
are lost in the sobs.
“How many guards have you counted, Drusilla?”
“He hoods me every time.”
“What’s it even matter what we’ve seen? We know he’s
listening right now. That’s the only reason he’d let us stay
together. How many Howlers has he caught? How many
have been retrieved? One—and Orion was so mad she
fucked a continent. We’re dead, goodmen. Go with dignity
at least. Soon we’ll be upon the pale.”
“Sure, dignity with a metal pole up your ass. Sounds like
a Tuesday for you, Ignacius.”
A beat of silence.
“The boss will come for us,” the leader says.
“Faithful to the end, Alex? Your Red god is drowned by
now or blasted to bits. The only grace we’ll receive is the
Void. But that’s prime. It’s just nothing, after all.”
“He’s not dead.”
“You really did go full lupus. The whole army is dead,
because of the Senate Vox. Taking our ships, the tiny
bastards. Heliopolis will have fallen in the siege, and the
army will have been trapped in the desert under the guns
of the Ash Armada. They’re probably already nailing
Darrow to the bow of the Annihilo to sail on Luna.”
“Then why are we still in a cave?”
There are at least ﬁve around me. All of them Golds.
Martian accents mostly, Elysian with a faint ﬂavor of the

Jovian Moons. I listen a little longer. Europan dialect.
Howlers, Darrow, Alex, the accents. It leaves little left to
guess. There’re two others sleeping. How many more, I
can’t tell because of the sound of the stream. I would guess
nine.
“Scarface is awake and listening to us,” the one called
Ignacius says.
“Are you awake, my goodman?” another asks with more
authority. The leader. His accent would be near-cultured
but for how he mumbles. “Don’t be afraid, we’re all fucked
here. Eyes open or closed, doesn’t much matter.” He laughs
with thin conﬁdence. I make a show of opening my right
eye. There are ten other prisoners chained as I am against
the wall. Two are sleeping. Two Gorgons sit about thirty
meters oﬀ in the throat of a tunnel that is the room’s only
exit.
“Told you he was awake,” Ignacius says. He’s a huge,
handsome brute.
“I don’t see a scar,” the woman says. Drusilla.
“Like they weren’t wise to that after year one,” Ignacius
says.
“What’s your name?” Drusilla asks. Her face is darker
than the rest. Kind eyes watch me from swollen eyelids.
“Easy now, my goodman,” Alexandar says. “You’ve been
mauled rather gruesomely.” Even with both his ears
missing, and half his face grotesquely swollen, I can tell he
is around my own age and that he used to be a handsome
man. Staggeringly, I wager. His shoulders are incredibly
broad for his frame. Legs meant to eat kilometers are
folded under him. The last time I saw him was in a holo
Cassius and I watched on the Archi as he stood behind
Darrow during a speech.
Alexandar au Arcos, Lorn’s grandson, my estranged
cousin, and Kalindora’s nephew on his mother’s side.

“What’s your name?” he asks. “Take your time.
Concussions befuddle the best of us.”
I heed Octavia’s ministrations and fall back on an identity
with long-term upside, which I can defend and they will be
unable to verify. Can’t be Rising. Can’t be Society. I have no
scar on my face, and can properly emulate the Mercurian
dialect popular in what counts as high society in Erebos.
The identity is natural, and a little hilarious. But I’m half
mad from dehydration, so I dive in.
“Cato au Vitruvius,” I say. The identity I used for security
reasons when I would visit Glirastes for studies. It belongs
to a ﬁctional son of a real local family of high history and
middling future.
“Salve, Cato. I’m Alexandar. Drusilla, Ignacius, Crastus,
Hadrian.” In turn, he nods at the kind-eyed woman, the
giant, a pretty man in his thirties, and a squat bull of a Gold
male. “The Knights of Elysium at your service, such as we
are.”
“Oh, now you’re a Knight of Elysium,” Drusilla mutters.
“Arcosian Knights,” one corrects.
“Who are you?” Ignacius demands of me.
“He means how did you end up in this hell?” Alexandar
asks. He smiles crimson. Not one of his teeth remains. I’m
surprised by the kindness of him, considering. He looked
haughtier on camera, and Grandmother’s Securitas ﬁle said
he was incredibly arrogant, intelligent, if not too creative,
with a paternal deﬁcit complex after the death of his father.
His defensiveness of the Reaper suggests the complex’s
newest placeholder.
I tell them a nervous story of the dam breaking at
Erebos. Ordnance falling on the city accounts for my burns;
trying to rescue survivors, for the sunburns; and trying to
take the impaled victims down, for the tacNet wounds.
Drusilla asks me sly, trick questions about my home,

suggesting she’s been to Erebos. But so have I, and I
trapped it all in amber. I can still see the silk market, and
the bright belts of the citizens, and the gold ﬁligree in
every single street sign.
I pass their meager tests.
“You’ve been here a while, haven’t you?” I ask.
“Yut,” Alex replies, with another trap.
“Pardon?” I ask, ﬂummoxed.
“You’re not a soldier, are you?” Alexandar says.
Another assumption trap. “I don’t understand.”
“Never mind.”
“I hardly know a single mate who’s enough money to pull
the Institute,” I reply. “My parents are…were silk
merchants, and not grand ones by any judge.”
“Then what did you do?” Drusilla asks.
“Drank mostly,” I reply. “My father bribed the magistrate
to let me stay in Erebos after the Conscription as a civil
engineer magistrate. War is such a ghastly aﬀair.” I give a
little shudder.
“So he’s a duty-dodging Pixie. I’m not swallowing this
snakeshit,” Ignacius says. “He’s a plant or, at the very least,
a slaver by participation.”
“So’s every person on Mercury according to you.”
“They all act like it. Only thing you get out of hugging a
Mercurian is a knife in the back. They’re all swindlers and
drunks, the sundark lot of them.”
“I’m darker than him,” Drusilla says.
“Semantics.”
“Will you two hens stop pecking?” Alexandar snaps.
“Why’d you want to know how long we’ve been here,
Cato?”
“It’s just that Heliopolis hasn’t fallen,” I say. “You said it
must have.” Even Ignacius listens intently. “I heard from a

man who’d been in the Ladon that Darrow led his army
across the desert under the cover of the storm. He hit Ajax
au Grimmus as he was besieging the city.”
“That madness worked?” Alexandar asks. He grins
hideously with empty gums at Ignacius. “I told you. The
boss has everything under control.”
Or he’s lost control completely.

***EphraimXenophon leads me into the skuggi hangar with a bored

expression on that wan face. “Gods, it’s quiet,” I mutter.
Not in the city below, where construction crews work night
and day to bring Olympia to its former glory, or in the lands
around, which vibrate with the sound of Obsidian ﬂocking
to the Volkland, or on the coasts where Alltribe ripWings
eye Republic ﬁghters across the Thermic, or in the mines
where Reds and Oranges hijack Quicksilver’s robots to
continue helium operations. It is quiet in Eagle Rest and
only Eagle Rest because Seﬁ and Valdir have taken the
children to hunt, my skuggi are oﬀ on missions, and I am
left like an old man to rattle around an abandoned house.
“Walk faster, please, we mustn’t be late to the kill,” the
logos says.
“Maybe we should be heading to the landing pads then,
genius.”
“We are…in a way.” We turn the corner and I stop dead in
my tracks. One of the most beautiful ships I’ve ever seen

sits beside ugly skuggi tactical ships like a two-comma Pink
in a frontline brothel. She is sixty meters long, sleek hulled,
equipped with twin-ion engines, two railguns, sensorresistant hull, and is shaped like a sideways hammerhead
shark. She is painted jade green. “Apollo’s cock, that’s a
beauty.”
“A gift from Her Majesty,” Xenophon says, handing me
the slim omnicard.
“Naw.”
“It is in your contract. A top-tier ﬂier. It was collected
from Quicksilver’s mansion in Nike. I daresay you’ll get
more use out of it than he will.” I put in the contract
because I thought I’d need an escape route out of here. I
never expected to actually get it just when I’m thinking I
may not need it. Still, I snatch the omnicard and practically
levitate toward the ship. She’s not just a racer, she’s a
deepspace tigress. Could probably run from Mars to the
sun in two weeks ﬂat. Well, maybe not that fast. “Keep in
mind, tracking measures have been installed. And the
children are not allowed within a kilometer of it.”
“Uh-huh.” I run my hand over the hull. “What’s the
catch?”
Xenophon smiles as a gaggle of dignitaries comes around
the corner. “I fear her maiden voyage will be as a taxi.
What will you call her?”
I turn back to grin at the White. “Snowball.”
“It’s green.”
“Still a Snowball.”
—
As the South Pole slumps toward the gloom of winter, a
wind the Obsidians call Breath of the Underdark moans
through the glacial valley. This slow, incessant current will

freeze the eyelashes oﬀ a man and blacken the skin in
twenty minutes. It signals the beginning of darkness for the
Pole.
From the warm conﬁnes of my thermal gear, two-thirds
the way up a young mountain, all I feel is the gentle tug of
nature telling me I don’t belong. I look around and the
crouched braves behind give me a nod and murmur, “Kalt,
Grarnir?”
“Njr, Grarnir kann njek kalt,” another says. “Fer ragnver
en la.” I dust snow oﬀ my shoulder.
Cold, Gray Fox?
Nah, Gray Fox can’t get cold. God ﬁre burns inside him.
I’m a walking, talking totem of invulnerability. A spirit
warrior. Proof of the existence of gods. Only Ozgard knows
I was under major psychotropic inﬂuence during the mine
heist. The Obsidians either don’t know or don’t care that
the hunterkillers didn’t ﬁre on me because I had Gray DNA
and held a mop. I wasn’t touched by the gods. I just wasn’t
a threat, according to their software. All they know is that
when Seﬁ and Valdir caught up, I stood amongst the enemy
howling like an ice-veined banshee.
Seﬁ and Valdir hit like the hammer of god ﬁve seconds
after I landed. Can’t rid myself of the sight of armored
Obsidians hacking at tripod robots, or how their meat
smelled as the robot lasers cleaved through ﬁve braves at a
time.
Thirty-ﬁve thousand Obsidian crack troops died cleaning
out the hunterkillers in the mines of Cimmeria. And me?
Not a bloody scratch. Ozgard got me drunk for three solid
days. Pax stood in amused silence when he saw me being
carried on the shoulders of Valkyrie. Electra literally almost
died laughing when I told them what’s what afterward in
my rooms in Olympia. I thought she’d be jealous. But she
thinks it’s the funniest thing she’s ever bloody heard,

though the mop jokes are rather overdone. Now she
actually talks to me without looking like she wants to cut
my balls oﬀ.
That’s all it took?
Freihild and the skuggi are drunk with valor for their
part in taking the mines. Several of the females have even
been given the honor of taking part in the hunt. The men
stand on the ledge with me, Valdir, and the highest-ranking
male jarls, tribal leaders. They were no less brave in battle,
and they know it. It has always been this way, but that
doesn’t mean they like it.
Seﬁ and Pax peer oﬀ a ledge not twenty meters away
amongst a long pack of Valkyrie hunters. The furs they
wear are crusted in a shell of ice from days of tracking. It
crackles when they move, and twinkles when light from the
shoulder lamps of the mechanized guards catches in the
gloom.
For six days the Valkyrie have stalked their prey. While
Electra accompanied Freihild on the stalking expedition to
the White Shards, Pax accompanied Seﬁ to ﬁnd scale-trace
at the Sundered Peaks. The know-it-all could tell you the
molecular structure of Obsidian arrowheads, but couldn’t
have cared less the day of their departure. The boy misses
his mother.
Apparently Seﬁ knows something about children. It is
diﬀicult to hold on to grief after six days of whiteout
conditions, frostbite, saddle sores, and sleeping in seal-hide
lean-tos. Pax knows how lucky he is to sit in the saddle
behind her. Of the Obsidian braves, not even Valdir ever
has mounted a griﬀin for a hunt. Pax’s melancholy has been
replaced by intense focus.
His head snaps back when a high-pitched whistle echoes
across the glacial valley, several notes higher than the
screaming wind. Xenophon, wrapped to his nose in thermal
gear, explains to the political guests I ferried on the

Snowball: Freihild is in motion. The chasers are out. The
beast is ﬂushed from its alpine cavern.
The killwing waits. Seﬁ waits.
The snow settles on her shoulders and bone helmet. She
looks like a god of winter, a permanent and unyielding
feature of the mountain.
A second whistle trills.
The younger Valkyrie look to her in expectation. The
older hunters know the Queen’s patience and stay
motionless. The guests murmur in excitement.
A third whistle sounds, impatient, urging her forward.
Seﬁ resists. Pax shoots her a glance. Seconds tick past. And
then Seﬁ raises a clenched ﬁst.
“Sljr,” she whispers, jumping oﬀ the ledge. A horn
moans.
“Sljr. Sljr. Sljr,” shout the Valkyrie, and ﬁfty women slip
over the edge. Pax goes with.
“Hunt,” Xenophon parrots.
The Valkyrie disappear and a moment later a series of
screams rises from the other side of the ridge. Seﬁ’s pale
steed bursts oﬀ the ledge beneath. Pax rides in the archer’s
saddle behind her, not out of place or afraid like I thought
he’d be.
A rush of air forces snow into my mouth as several griﬀin
banking overhead dislodge snowdrifts above. Two Red
allies stumble into each other, laughing and marveling at
the mounted Valkyrie careening down into the valley
keening death. Bare-armed in the cold, Valdir steps forward
and watches with a practiced eye, and a purity of awe, love,
and jealousy. Anyone could see how much he wishes to ﬂy
upon the beasts of his people. I don’t like the man. He’s a
closed book. But I feel for him. No longer a slave of
Grimmus, but still not quite free.

“Your ﬁrst hunt?” Xenophon asks me, taking a pause
from the narration so the onlookers can collect themselves.
I nod. “Not yours, it seems.”
“My third. During the war, Her Majesty would return
when she could to honor the sundeath. I believe she feared
she would forget who she was if she spent too long away
from the Ice. I advised her against this hunt, however.”
“Ozgard and Valdir seemed bullish enough.”
“They would. It may invigorate the spirit of the shaman
and satisfy Valdir’s expectations of a queen, but such
considerations are specious for a modern head of state,
given the unnecessary exposure to risk. Not to mention the
details of state which pile up in her absence. I designed her
government to function with a monarch. Without one, it
functions at ﬁfty percent eﬀiciency, not that Valdir or the
madman would care for such trivialities.” Xenophon looks
around. “Have you seen the madman?”
“He’s probably drunk in a cargo hold somewhere,” I say,
growing annoyed. I want to watch the hunt.
“It is a high probability.” The sexless mammal squints to
the west as Valdir points and calls out to the others. “Ah,
the drake. Excuse me.”
I look west. Scales glint in the gloom, rippling low
against the snowy boulders of the valley ﬂoor. The glint
becomes a blur that becomes a leviathan of the ice. Though
I know its ancestors were carved by mad Violets in
conjunction with Yellow geneticists, the ice drake seems an
ancient creature. Something older than we are.
I realize I’ve forgotten to breathe.
“This specimen is a black ice drake of the Níðhöggr
strain—one of the rarest and most revered creatures in
Obsidian mythology,” Xenophon explains to the guests.
“ ‘He Who Strikes with Malice’ is said to be the bringer of
winter. This one is an old bull, as can be divined by the nine

lateral tusks and triple horn, which mark his decades. Of
course, the hunting of sows is forbidden, and punishable by
the Blood Eagle.”
The guests whisper with awe, as if the creature were
magical, and not thirty tons of lab-engineered death.
Pursued by Freihild and her chasers, the bull tears
through the mountain valley. Even at our distance, I feel a
chill. The Obsidian guards watch in appreciation, Valdir in
pure love. Few would have ever seen a drake in ﬂight, or
slipped into a lair to kill and drink the blood of a hatchling
to begin the Way of Stains.
The drake spots Seﬁ’s hunting band ahead and banks
right, thinking to escape over the north side of the valley.
Thunder crackles from the peaks. Obsidian youths, who
summited the mountains with hooks and rope, light sulfurbased charges into their braziers, and launch them into the
clouds with slings. Huge claps of sound frighten the dragon
back and forth across the valley as it seeks some escape,
only to be herded again and again by small explosions from
surrounding peaks.
Someone screams as it banks our way. Amidst the
guards, skuggi light fuses on the brazier and hurl the clay
bombs into the air. They laugh as the pots explode. Gudkind
tosses me two. I light them and hurl them skyward. Boom.
Booom.
The rush of air from the drake’s wings nearly knocks me
oﬀ my feet. It passes a stone’s throw from us. Debris and
rocks the size of a man’s head are crusted in the ice along
the wyrm’s belly. Attendants scatter, laughing in relief as it
pinballs back down into the valley toward the Queen. Valdir
rushes to the cliﬀ’s edge to lean forward and watch. Scores
follow him.
Above a frozen alpine lake, an inverted V of Valkyrie
hunters forms around the drake. Seﬁ waits at the far tip of
the V to deliver the killing stroke. But as the ﬁrst arrows

from the Obsidians ﬂy from their ﬂanks, the drake uses an
updraft to go into a precarious climb. It knocks two griﬀins
from the air. Their riders ﬂail from the saddles, but their
safety ropes snap them back toward their tumbling steeds.
One recovers. The other collides with a mountainside below
as her griﬀin is bisected by the razor tips of the drake’s
wings.
The guests are horriﬁed. Valdir touches his heart. A good
death. His eyes search the chasers, young griﬀin riders
with more spirit than experience, looking for Freihild, I
reckon. My optics pick her up by the green plumes of her
headdress. Electra sits in the archer saddle behind her,
priming combustible arrows.
Seﬁ blows a horn, and the griﬀin V inverts as the riders
kick their griﬀins into motion. The beasts bank upside
down and race beneath the drake as Freihild leads the
chasers to follow it to the higher altitude. Huge sounds
rattle the valley as they shoot arrows with combustible tips
to herd it back down. The sound scares the dragon oﬀ its
ascent, forcing it back toward Seﬁ’s re-formed V nearer the
ground. The ﬁrst of Seﬁ’s hunters begin to harry the drake,
soaring past to hurl spears or shoot arrows into its side.
Only Seﬁ continues ﬂying away from it, pushing her
griﬀin two hundred meters past the rest before she banks
back around. Her wingsisters pull taut ropes connected to
the spears and arrows embedded in the creases of the
dragon’s scales. The ﬁrst riders are jerked sideways by its
mass, but soon more than twenty ropes are secured and
together the skyhunters anchor the drake along its path
toward their Queen.
“The weakest scale is just beneath the dragon’s eyes,”
Xenophon explains as I switch to long-range optics. “A
diﬀicult shot for even the most skilled archer. Skyhunters
aid their daughters in crafting their ﬁrst bow from godtree
wood and the gut string of leopard seals. Only when the

daughters are strong enough to draw this bow do they
begin to practice marksmanship. Two more bows will they
make before they fashion their skybow from the horn of a
tanngrisnir goat. In her time, Seﬁ killed six ice drakes with
her bow, named in honor of her father Promise of Pale
Horse. The same bow which slew two Gold overlords of this
province on the Day of Breaking.”
Harnessed from the sides, the dragon continues its
course toward Seﬁ, not yet noticing her. Two hundred
meters, one hundred. Pax hands her the skybow from her
saddle. It is twice as long as a man. She nocks a great
arrow. “The drake will be slowing from the marrowﬁsh
venom in its veins,” Xenophon says, but the drake seems, if
anything, even angrier. Seﬁ stands in her stirrups. The
drake is at eighty meters. She draws back on the bow. And
then…nothing. She seems to freeze. I zoom in with my
hood’s optics. She draws back on the string again, and
again stops halfway, unable to summon enough strength to
draw the arrow back to her face, much less her ear.
Xenophon has gone silent. Valdir stands. Something is
wrong.
The drake is ﬁfty meters out, and sees only Seﬁ and Pax
atop Godeater blocking his escape. Seﬁ’s given up trying to
shoot, and veers Godeater swiftly down and to the left. The
drake follows, lashing out with its wings and severing half
the ropes, while hurling other skyhunters, including
Freihild, through the air. Electra nearly falls from the
saddle. Something’s gone terribly wrong. The drake closes
on Pax and Seﬁ, extending its neck to impossible length. Its
teeth snap oﬀ the back of their saddle, almost tearing Pax
in half. Godeater slashes futilely against the hard scales.
The drake coils its neck for another lunge when Freihild
slashes past and buries a spear in its eye, just missing the
sweet spot.

She hurls herself from her griﬀin and lands on the
dragon’s head, burying two climbing hooks, she is tossed
sideways, almost losing her perch. The drake ignores her
and bears down again on Seﬁ and Pax, trapping them
against the valley’s side. Godeater scrambles along the
sheer walls, unable to escape.
I act without thinking. I rush to a stupeﬁed brave and
demand his riﬂe. “The creed forbids it!” a guard growls.
“Fuck your creed.” I jerk at the riﬂe, but in his hardened
grip, it goes nowhere.
“Give him the riﬂe,” Valdir orders from behind me.
Grudgingly, the guard surrenders it.
Praying I’ve not run out of time, I rush past the gawking
onlookers and fall prone, steadying the barrel on a divot in
the rocks. Its energy pack whines as it charges up. The
targeting computer is slow to start. I go analog. Thanks to
the guard’s delay, I’ve lost time. The lights from the nearby
shuttles reﬂect against the optic. They disappear. I glance
sideways to see Valdir blocking them for me with his body.
Not his ﬁrst time as a spotter. For a moment, I think he
won’t let me take the shot. I could hit Freihild, but he nods.
“Wait for it to turn its head.”
I peer back into the optic.
Godeater has gone to ground, trapped by the drake on a
rocky scree as the other Valkyrie fruitlessly try to regroup
and bypass its razor wings. Only Freihild protects her
Queen, stabbing in vain at the thick scales of the drake’s
head, but her eﬀorts dirty my shot.
I sink into my breathing and try to forget Valdir looming
over my shoulder as I settle the crosshairs on Freihild’s
back. The dragon’s head is faced away. She blocks the shot.
Move. MOVE. My hands shake from nerves. Her arms raise
to plunge the spear into the back of the dragon’s neck. I
wait for it to sink deep. It bites into the meat behind the

ear slits. The drake whirs its face around, snapping at her. I
aim two hands above her shoulder and squeeze.
A beam of white light divides the gloom.
—
A city forms around the downed drake on the frozen plain.
It is called a drekinhaugr, a dragon mound. Tribeswomen
and men of the Valkyrie Spires along with a great many of
their allied tribes bring huge logs for the bonﬁre on sleds
pulled by aurochs. Lesser shamans ferry vats of hard grog,
berry liquor called azag, and sweet mead in leather gourds
the size of bathtubs. Chanting and drums resound from a
train of thousands as they ﬂow into the valley to witness
the last harvest of light.
They chant Freihild’s name, and mine. Protectors of the
Queen. The young skuggi sways over to where I stand with
Pax and Xenophon in a great bear cloak and wraps me in a
hug. “They sing of us, Grarnir! They sing of the glory of our
arms! No sound is sweeter.”
“Here I thought they’d pin me to a rock and splay open
my ribs,” I say to Freihild.
“A poacher’s gun is not a poacher’s heart,” she says, then
draws close. “But I would have killed it on my own.” She
sees me eye the cooked skin of her right shoulder. “Close
shot. Close shot!” She saunters away laughing and
shouting encouragement to the harvesters.
“Did you know you would hit it?” Xenophon asks.
“I knew I had a chance.”
The White considers that. “And if you had killed her while
Valdir stood over your shoulder?”
“I doubt we’d be having this conversation.”
“True enough. Now I believe I have had enough
excitement for the day. I must return to my functions.”

“See you at the party. First drink’s on me.”
“I am not invited.” The White looks me up and down.
“Your assimilation is not surprising. You display traits any
martial culture would value. I, on the other hand, will
always be an alien. Enjoy the sundeath. I am told its color
composition can be quite moving to the warrior spirit.”
The White sways away toward a ﬂier to be taken back to
the Echo of Ragnar, which Seﬁ disappeared inside as soon
as it set down on a mesa overlooking the valley. The
destroyer, more a mobile city of war than a ship, makes
even the mountains look small.
“That’s one sad human,” I say to Pax.
“They’re not sad,” Pax murmurs, more focused on the
harvesting than our blathering. “If anything, they’re sad
that they’re not sad.”
I soon forget about Xenophon. The harvest is a sight.
Young braves climb the dragon’s ﬂank, wedging climbing
hooks between the slippery scales to carve the most
ﬂavorful meat from the sides of the spine. Electra races
several Obsidian youths up the side, and has them beat by
ten meters when a dead scale sheaves oﬀ and she
plummets back down the ﬂank, hits the elbow of the
dragon’s broken wing, ricochets, and plunges into a gaping
incision made by harvesters. When she emerges covered
with gore, the Obsidians whoop with laughter.
Poised on the ridge of the dragon’s back, the crews use
levers to dislodge the scales and long saws to butterﬂy the
spine. Great hunks of meat are stacked in steaming piles
atop a parade of sledges brought in ceremonial fashion by
youths as the elders drink and call out capricious
instructions.
Pax whispers the destiny of each body part to me. The
scales are for ceremonial rites and griﬀin battle armor. The
joint ﬂuid and eyes for poultices and elixirs. The blubber for

candles and lamps and to be mixed with berries to make a
dish called atuka. The liver and brain to be eaten frozen or
raw, “obviously cooking would destroy the vitamin C.”
“Obviously.”
I poke his hip. “You’re not wearing your harness.”
“We were hunting.”
I slap his head. “I told you to always wear your harness.”
The harness he made himself in his garage. “After all, I got
a ship now.”
“Which?” he asks.
“The jade one.”
He whistles. “Too good for you.”
A group of skyhunters with pierced noses and tattered
ears stomp over to me to give a sign of respect. The women
look at Pax and cover their eyes in shame. He pretends not
to care as he examines my ship in the distance.
“Looks like you’re the fall man,” I say.
“Naturally.”
“What happened up there? Why could Seﬁ not draw her
bow?”
He focuses on the harvesting, pretending to not notice
the scornful looks passing braves give him. “The cord has
an immensely strong molecular composition, but can
contract if not protected from the cold. I forgot to keep it in
its heat sheath during the stalk.”
“Is that true?”
He makes no expression. “Of course. I am a heatlander,
and a man. It was expected I would draw the gods’ ire by
joining the sacred hunt. I forgot my duties to my
wingleader.”
“When was the last time you forgot anything?”
He looks over with a chiding expression. “Sometimes it’s
better to let a wheel squeak than break the cart trying to

ﬁx it.”
The truth sits unspoken between us. Either the bowstring
was tampered with, which seems an awkward way to
assassinate Seﬁ. Or something is wrong with Seﬁ herself.
But how wrong?
“Oh shit…what is that?” I cry as harvesters pull two
brain-sized gelatinous sacks from the drake’s belly.
“The
testicles,
of
course.
They
have
intense
hallucinogenic properties when dried and ground down.
Berserkers used them to summon the winter rage. Now
they are forbidden, per Seﬁ’s decree.”
I wince as the testicles are tossed onto a ﬁre by a
shaman. “No wonder the men never speak up around
here.”
At a jingle behind us, Pax’s face lights up. “ ’Lo, Ozgard!”
he calls as the shaman arrives on a sleigh pulled by two
blue-painted aurochs, each with tiny bells hanging from
their great ivory horns. The shaman drinks from a hollow
tusk and jumps down from a bed of furs to greet us.
“Stupid heatlander,” he snaps at Pax, striking at him with
his riding crop. “Everyone talks—brave to pup. You forgot
string-guard. You embarrass me. You embarrass all men.
You nearly killed our Queen.” He gesticulates drunkenly.
“They think I am stupid. Teach you nothing.” He tosses Pax
a hooked blade as long as Pax’s leg. “Do not sit back in
shame. Go harvest. Unless you forgot my instructions. I
need two kilos liver, ten kilos lung, one kilo spleen, twoounce ﬂame ichor, and four gonad veins. Do not embarrass
me again, stupid boy.”
Without objecting, Pax departs at a jog. Good little
soldier.
“Bit late,” I say to Ozgard.
“Should have used boots or ship.” Ozgard sighs and
punches his most muscled aurochs on the ﬂank. “Preparing

for my Godspeak in ruins of Spires. Nefelfjar sensed evil
sprits within a crag. Became frightened. I gave him grog.
And he found his courage.” The aurochs sways back and
forth, drunker than his shaman. Ozgard squints at Pax
joining the harvesters, who make a show of excluding him.
“It is sacrilege to kill a high beast with a ﬁrearm,”
Ozgard says. “Valkyrie nailed two poachers to a rock and
had a buzzard eat their liver for just that two weeks past.”
“I’ve been told,” I say as another group of skyhunters
come to pay their respects to me. “What’s wrong with
Seﬁ?” I ask as they depart.
He doesn’t hear me. “What was the alien doing during
this?”
“What is it with you two?” I mutter. “Xenophon didn’t
cast a spell. And you know as well as I do that Pax can draw
Olympia by memory from a single glance. Kid didn’t forget
to warm a stupid string. So what’s wrong with Seﬁ?”
He pours himself more grog and pretends not to have
heard me. “When the sun dies tonight, I go to read the
ﬁrebones. It is custom for the drakeslayers to bear the
bones. I expect you will observe this custom at least?”
—
That night, in the small city that has grown about the
remains of the dragon, the Children of the Spires, last of
Ragnar’s people, throw one hell of a party for the dying
sun.
They light a great bonﬁre of dragon fat and mountain
pine. In the ﬂames, great hunks of ﬂesh are roasted on long
skewers and served with wild tubers, mountain berries,
oysters, and great horns of grog passed out by a stout
Obsidian man with no nose.

Freihild and I are given fresh necklaces of dragon’s teeth
to mark us as the drakeslayers. Mine is given with a degree
of comedy, and grumbling from Valdir’s conservative
cohort, but not Valdir himself.
As the Obsidians feast and laugh, Ozgard leads a troupe
of braves wearing masks made from the bones of sacred
tribal creatures. They pretend they are ice sprites,
dropping little diamonds in cups or tucking thin bars of
gold behind ears. The warriors wheel about, trying to catch
the sprites, only to snag empty air and roar with laughter. If
they are caught, the sprites must drink until their captor is
satisﬁed. I catch three, including poor Gudkind, and send
them reeling from grog to pass out by the ﬁre. Sprawled on
furs, Electra listens to Obsidian veterans tell stories about
their days with the Goblin. Pax bickers back and forth in
Nagal with one of Seﬁ’s warchiefs about the strategic
necessity of his father using the Storm Gods on Mercury. I
sit in comfort, warmed by the ﬁre, light-headed from the
grog, and satiated by the meat from the hunt. I’ve not felt
this tranquil in years.
There is a joy here. A sense of eternal family, with no
worry of the world that seeks to destroy them. They are
home and free.
Is this what it is like to be them?
Mars is not what I expected—neither Olympia nor the
Ice. It is simpler here, sure. But my mind is quieter without
the peripheral madness of Hyperion. There the current
demands you do something to deﬁne your own essence, to
rise above the human rivers in the street, or be drowned
under them.
Here you can simply be.
I wish I could give this to Volga. Poor girl has always
feared her own people, what they would think of her birth,
but maybe she would ﬁnd this to be the home she was
always looking for.

Hell, part of me wishes Lyria could feel this again, what
with her family all gone. I’m in such damn good spirits that
I wish even Xenophon could share in the feast. The poor
creature is always standing to the side, never included
unless Seﬁ needs information or a task fulﬁlled. Not that
Xenophon seems to mind.
This warm peace is an illusion, I know. My time in it is
ﬂeeting. It will not last, not the night, not the celebration,
not the hunt, not my friendship with the Obsidians, nor
Cimmeria’s acceptance of Obsidian rule. They give them
jobs, a percentage of the mine proﬁts, chase the Red Hand
north, but more and more Obsidians ﬂock to Mars by the
day. How long till the Reds resent them? Or Agea feels the
power balance shift?
In the morning, the Echo of Ragnar will absorb us and lift
oﬀ. Then back to Olympia we go. Seﬁ to her government.
Valdir to his hunt of the Red Hand. The children to their
lessons and grim future.
Me to being me.
Part of me wonders if I can’t stay in this moment. Find a
place in Olympia with these people who have welcomed
me. They have a dark spirit in their nature, sure. We all do.
At least here seems a people, seems a leader, intent on
ﬁnding their better virtues. I play with the dragon’s teeth
and watch Seﬁ across the ﬁre for some sign of ailment.
There are none except the long glove she always wears.
She pulls it up as she watches Freihild hold court from
behind her chalice of wine. Seﬁ’s eyes wander to her mate.
Valdir is drunk, and worse than ever at hiding his lust for
Freihild. It’s so obvious why the big man watches her.
While Seﬁ is by nature reserved and seems aged
prematurely from the weight of her crown, Freihild brims
from life. She fends oﬀ long-haired suitors with a stick,
swatting them toward the ﬁre before twirling around to

lead the braves in song. Seﬁ is the past, the present, but
more and more it seems Freihild is the future.
Dizzy from ale, I use Pax’s head to help me stand and
excuse myself to take a piss. I wander away from the ﬁres
to where their warm light licks at the darkness beyond. It’s
so cold I pull up my hood and watch through the thermal
vision as my piss carves runes in the snow.
I hear the jingle of metal behind me, and pull oﬀ my
hood. Valdir unbuckles the huge ruby clasp of his belt. I
step back in surprise. “Do not fear,” the big man rumbles,
“I am not here to rape you.”
“That is a very odd thing to say.”
He drops his pants.
“Oh.”
His huge thighs are moon-pale in the gloom, as thick as
tree trunks. As he squats to shit, long muscles ripple
beneath tattooed skin notched and striated from old
wounds. Drunk, he drinks more from a huge horn and nods
to my hood. “Does thermal vision make it look bigger?”
“It’s not the bark that counts, oldboy. It’s the bite. I’ll
leave you to your defecation.”
“What is ‘Horn’ for?”
“Surname of the seed donor.”
“Your father?”
The earthy scent of his shit wafts over to me. “More or
less.”
“Was he a great man?”
“No.”
He wipes his ass with snow and pulls up his trousers. He
considers me and nods in approval. “You come from no one.
I too come from no one.” Then he turns and stumbles back
to the ﬁre.
“The Queen knows about you and Freihild,” I say.

He wheels back, and with one step closes the distance. I
have to step back to look into his eyes.
“It’s not my business what you do with your cock. But at
least have the decency not to undress Freihild with your
eyes like a titanium-hard teenager. Your Queen doesn’t
seem the forgiving kind. And others notice, even if they’re
too afraid of you to say it.”
I slip past him and leave him to his dung.

***EphraimObsidians arrange themselves in a crescent and
groan a song of farewell to the last sliver of sun as it dips
beneath the horizon, not to be seen again until summer. It
has a faintly tragic quality, this sendoﬀ. The dark months of
winter are a reality the Obsidians have left behind. While
Olympia undergoes repairs, they will return to their cities
and highrise penthouses and skyhook bars and brothels in
the cities of Cimmeria, leaving only the sparse remnants of
savage clans to suﬀer the season.
Seﬁ gives us a blessing before we go, dipping her ﬁnger
in blood and pressing it to my forehead, then Ozgard’s.
When she comes to Freihild, her jaw locks and she presses
hard enough with her nail to leave a small gash.
I wave dramatically at Pax as the Snowball takes oﬀ to
the clamor of drums and horns, the skull of the dragon
dragging behind on a tow cable. As I ﬂy, Freihild looks
joyfully ahead while Ozgard plays with his jeweled rings.
HE

Half an hour’s ﬂight ﬁnds us beside the ruins of the
Valkyrie Spires. We drop the skull by the site Ozgard and
his acolytes have prepared for the Godspeak at a rise. We
set down south of it and hike up. I raise our thermal tent
while Ozgard and Freihild douse the skull and timber with
dragon fat and lay out a circle of scales etched with runes.
Soon ﬁre leaps along the skull and the pine beneath.
Freihild and I sip heated grog to ward oﬀ the chill as
Ozgard ﬁnishes laying his runes. She looks so young in the
ﬁrelight I can barely remember thinking her a savage. She
catches me watching her ﬁnger the small scratch Seﬁ gave
her.
“I saw you and Valdir speaking in the shadow,” she says.
“He returned haunted. Did you give him some Gray
wisdom?”
“Nothing he doesn’t already know.”
The ﬁre crackles between us. She knows I know.
“I have tried to end it before. It is a war in here.” She
opens her hand over her heart. “Seﬁ gave me purpose.
Valdir…everything else.” She looks out at the snow. “She is
stubborn. She is the strength in the bond. She must release
him. But she will not. I do not know what to do.”
“Yeah.”
“Yeah,” she mocks. “No funny joke? No cruel cuts? Just
‘yeah’?”
I rub my hands together trying to soak up the warmth of
the ﬁre. “I don’t know what you want me to say. It is what it
is. Maybe she loves him too. I don’t know. But you know it
ain’t just between you and Seﬁ and Valdir. How many
others have found out?” Her jaw clenches. “Take that
number and triple it. Hell, multiply it by ten. Gossip like
that…exponential echoes.” I sigh, knowing I should mind
my own business. But I care about this weird assassin, and

I guess I care about Seﬁ. “Seriously, what’s Seﬁ supposed
to do? Have you killed?”
“No. That is dishonorable. My Queen is honorable. She
would challenge me. Out here, I would win. In a circle, no.”
“Lucky for you, she’s forbidden challenges, remember?
Her New Path? Alltribe no kill Alltribe. Anyway, do you
want to kill your Queen?”
“No,” she snaps. “She is all.” Her face goes blank.
“Maybe she will ﬁnd another mate.”
“And what does that tell the others? You saw her fail to
draw that bow. Others did too. Some’ll buy the Pax bit, but
not all. Are you trying to be queen?”
She reels back, oﬀended. “No.”
“Well, maybe you make that clear to everyone, especially
Seﬁ. Right now, she’s being the big girl. You’re spitting in
her eye. She might have the throne, but you’re the only one
who can ﬁx this.”
She weaves a dragon tooth into her valor tail. “I have
never feared the enemy. But speaking to Seﬁ…” Her
expression becomes tragic. “Valdir is my heart. I do not
want it to be so, but he is. When I wake, when I sleep, he is
a warm shadow that goes with me always.”
“Well, kid. It’s on you. I’d like to say there’s another
shadow or whatever out there for you, but I found mine and
he’s stuck with me….”
“But some things are more important,” she says.
I stare into the ﬁre. “Maybe.”
“Alltribe is more important than me. I know what I must
do.” She claps my shoulder hard enough to rattle my teeth.
“Like I said. Gray wisdom.” She grows dour, sinking into
the weight of her decision. Restless from all the thinking,
she stands up and tells Ozgard she will ﬁnd the nightgaze,
and he can warm his old bones by the ﬁre, and maybe learn
something from the Gray.

The old shaman wheezes as he sits down. “What did you
say to her?”
“Oh, just being wise. You know. Like a fox.”
I tighten my jacket, feeling chilled under the gaze of the
hollow towers. They hunch together, lording over the
scattered stone and shadow, the many empty doors and
windows like so many eye sockets. Once this was home to
Seﬁ the Quiet, Ragnar the god. Now only wind moves in the
dead city.
“Do you hear them?” Ozgard cocks his head to the wind.
“Not all the people of Alia had heart to follow Seﬁ to the
stars. Those who remained felt the wrath of Gold. Their
spirits are trapped in the stone, shamed for all time.”
“Poor sods.”
He snorts. “If it were true, yes.”
“I’ll be damned. Is that skepticism I hear from a
shaman?” Ozgard shrugs and prods the crumbling pine of
the ﬁre with a distant look. His mood is diﬀerent than
amongst his people. Less frivolous. I shift closer to the
ﬂames. “So…what now?”
“We drink until Freihild returns with nightgaze. The gods
must be oﬀered strength of the beast and beauty of the
land to speak.” He sounds bored.
“Right.”
He sighs and looks at the darkness creeping around us.
“I confess, I hope she does not hurry. It is good to be alone
in the snow.”
“Thought you liked Freihild.”
He chuckles. “Freihild is clever woman, but she is blind,
not like us.”
“How’s that?”
“The more blessed the creature, the less they question
life. She is like Valdir and his big muscles this way. Blindly

forward with purpose. Guided by the trough of
expectation.” Ozgard plays with his rings. “But us…that
which is thin to us is thick to others. Dull to us, resplendent
to fools. I envy the blind. To accept mystery. To witness a
corpse and think Valhalla instead of maggots.
“Did you know I was born to a woman of power? You
would not think it. Brood of a great queen. Destined to ﬁght
the gods’ battles in the stars. But I was cursed for my
mother’s impiety. So our shaman said.”
He brandishes his twisted hand.
“Amniotic band syndrome. Agony. Bred out of the other
races, but not ours. My ﬁngers were never formed. My
spirit berries dull the pain.”
“Why not just get an upgrade?” I pat my new leg.
He turns the twisted hand. “Many of the braves believe it
is the root of my power. At four, my mother found me
amputating my own hand with a ﬁsh knife to stop the pain.
They said a dark spirit was within me. Fools. Shaman
pressed coals into the soles of my feet, and I was given to
the Ice. No Valhalla for a cursed child.
“They now say spirits found me. Raised me with their
arts. That I sacriﬁced my hand to Mimir for a drink from
her well of wisdom.” He spits into the coals in disgust.
“Cruelty is the heart of myth.
“There was no Mimir. I could not walk for the wounds. So
I crawled, dragged my child’s body with one hand until my
ﬁngers blackened. No spirit came. No gods. It was the
kindness of a noman that saved me. A shamed man cast out
from his own people who lived as a hermit in the
mountains. He became my father, my mother. But his life
was withering. Hepatocellular carcinoma, I believe. Soon I
would be a boy alone on the ice. So he gave me all he could
to survive when he left. Omens, prophecies, tricks. He
taught me religion is a lever. With a slight force at a clever

angle: immense power to shift tides of humanity. When his
andi returned to the Allmother, I gave his ﬂesh to Sky and
bones to Ice, and went to ﬁnd a people.”
He passes me a horn of grog. I take a generous swig,
then another, and scoot closer to the ﬁre, intrigued and a
little mystiﬁed he’s letting me see beneath the mask. Risky
business, that.
“The ﬁrst tribe found value in my father’s tricks. I was
clever, but reckless and cruel. Their shaman had a trick in
wooing ice serpents. He would light a ﬁre of bitternettle to
make them sleepy. I changed the nettle for a mangroot. I
declared him a falsiﬁer. When his snakes killed him before
his Queen, I became their shaman. Soon, they were
conquered, and I became shaman to that tribe, and the
next. To survive, I replaced other clever men. I used the
lever. I learned to say what queens want to hear. In time, I
learned to say what queens need to hear. And when I came
upon the shaman who put coals to my feet, having left my
mother after her tribe was conquered, I fed his manhood
and liver to him and burned his body on the tundra. But I
despaired. I felt no joy. The river of blood ﬂowed and
ﬂowed. Tribe ﬁghting tribe. Queen ﬁghting queen. Shaman
unseating shaman. We were cannibals. When Seﬁ and Tyr
Morga slew our gods, I saw a queen who could tame the
darkness inside us.”
He grows quiet and watches the stars.
“That’s some story.”
He glares. “You doubt me?”
“Well, you’re not exactly Victra au I-cannot-tell-a-lie.”
He grins. “And what can bond sinners but their sins?
None of my people would understand. Secrets are weight.”
“I’ll drink to that.” I take down another gulp and pass the
horn. “Quite a pair, eh? Two con men just trying to stay
above water. Was wondering if you’d ever drop the mask.”

He laughs and drinks deep. “Was the Alltribe her idea or
yours?”
“Mine. Sowed over years. Too long she listened to
Xenophon, thinking Gold wisdom wisest. And to Valdir,
guide of her heart, a stonebrain who worships the Reaper
because he is master of violence. Were it not for the cost of
the Mercurian Rain…”
“A fool could never have made a kingdom.”
“You listen too much to others. I am not a fool.”
“Naw, you really aren’t, are you? Fair’s fair. What are you
then?”
He chooses carefully. “Liar. That is what I truly am.” The
sigh of a man disappointed in himself eases out of him. “A
liar who lied because he did not want to die. Because he
did not want to live in the ice without a people. Is that a
sin?” He sits in penitence and stirs the coals, searching for
something. “I know you laugh at ﬁrebones. Others see you
fall in mine victory and think you blessed. But we know how
lucky you were to live. All my life, I looked in ﬁrebones and
saw nothing. Nothing but my own spirit growing darker
and gods more distant. Not once did they answer me. My
father said they were not real. Only the chains of our
masters.” He grasps his chest. “But inside this heart, a coal
burned. Wanting them to be real. Something to be real.
This world is so cold, you know?”
Freihild knows. It’s why she fears to lose Valdir. And I
know. I know all too well. He reaches into the ﬁre to take a
coal brighter than the rest. The stink of burning skin ﬁlls
the air.
“I do not know if the gods are real. But something,
someone, spoke to me, and the coal long dormant ignited.
It was on Mercury. Using the bones of our braves fallen in
the Rain, I saw a griﬀin in the ﬂames. Winged and stained
red, red as the eyes of a Helldiver. And the gray smoke that

formed above the griﬀin took the shape of a fox, one old
and cunning, but held back by thorns of darkness.” He
looks up at me, the reﬂection of the coal burning in his
eyes. “Fear became me. After so long…so long, my gods
had spoken. But I feared knowing their origin. Feared my
own doubt. And then I saw you on Luna. And I knew. I knew
our path. Your path. And my Queen set sail for Mars. It is
our destiny to be here. Yours, mine, Seﬁ’s.”
The ﬁre crackles. In the dark, wind whistles through the
ruins.
“You want to know what insanity is?” I pull out a gold
ten-credit piece. I wave my hand over it, and it disappears.
I pull it from behind his ear and feign awe. “Falling for your
own con. You weren’t seeing the gods, you were high,
oldboy.”
He takes no oﬀense.
“There is a world to be seen through god’s breath. It is a
real world. Vibrations. Energy. Fear. Exultation. But all that
is in serotonin, prefrontal cortex, easily manipulated.
Xenophon has told my Queen this many times. But my
Queen knows something Xenophon does not…” His bones
creak as he leans forward. “I took no god’s breath that
day.”
He puts the red-hot coal in his mouth. Then he seizes my
hand and spits the coal into my palm. I almost drop it. But
he holds my hand closed. The coal is cool as snow. I’ve
never seen that trick before.
“I know tricks. More tricks than you.” I turn the coal over
in my hands. It glows with light. “What I have seen was no
trick. Fire and ash will come. And end of worlds. Serpent
will strangle wolf. Lion will battle lion. Darkness will battle
light. Sister murder brother. Son murder father. Father
murder daughter. This is what the ﬁre told me. All I have
seen has come true. As others are consumed, Seﬁ will rise
from the ashes to bind the Obsidians, to become one with

Red, to found a kingdom watched over by a gray fox.
Watched over by you.”
An uncomfortable silence grows between us.
“There’s a lot of Grays in the worlds, oldboy. This one’s
just passing through. I get my girl, and I’m gone.”
He shakes his head. “You have your games. I had mine.
But a man must someday stand his ground, or he is no man.
Soon, when Volga is returned, you will have a choice to
abandon us or to stay. I know you will choose to be a man.
You are here to watch over Seﬁ. It is your destiny, and we
are your tribe.”
We ﬁnish the rest of the grog in silence. Bored of waiting
for Freihild, Ozgard retires to our tent and tells me to wake
him when she returns. I remain at the campﬁre as it
dwindles, listening to him snore and creatures howl in the
shrouded mountains.
Ozgard is a liar. A fraud. A charlatan running on thin ice.
We’re too alike to ever trust each other, but also too alike to
miss the chance to try. I envy him now. He’s found a cause.
Where is mine?
Save Volga, then what?
Abandon my contract? Carve out a life on the run? Could
I really stay?
Freihild is taking forever, and the ﬁre is doing little to
keep me warm. Remembering I have another coat in the
ship, I head back. In the darkness, I lose my way, and wind
up along a scree of rubble from a fallen tower. My hand
light illuminates a rock carved with griﬀins.
The Gold orbital strikes from a decade ago melted most
of the carvings away. It’s not right. The wings are unique to
each griﬀin. Someone took care to carve this. And then,
with a push of a button, a drone of a human wiped it all
away.

A faint silver glint in the rocks distracts me from my
melancholy. I climb up and shine my light on it, thinking it
might be some relic or a starShell fragment. It’s neither. I
almost laugh at my dumb fortune. How could Freihild miss
this? It stretches in the darkness all the way to the base of
a pale tree set against a jagged obelisk.
A few minutes later, I retired to our camp. I stir Ozgard
gently from his sleep. He wakes with a snort, clutching a
dagger under his furs with his good hand. “You want to see
some magic, shaman?”
He grins. “Always.”
—
We retrace my path through the rubble and climb the pillar.
The silver light washes Ozgard’s face of its creases. As he
witnesses the ﬁeld of nightgaze amongst the ruins, his
expression becomes that of a child jumping into a public
fountain on a hot day. The ﬂowers are like pools of liquid
silver. Ozgard’s thick hands stroke the petals with tender
care. They curl around his dark ﬁngers. A great laugh
escapes him, and he walks in rapture, following the veins of
ﬂowers that skin the rubble and leaning towers in mutinous
silver light.
He glances back at me. “Thank you for this gift. It will
never be forgotten.”
I’m about to reply, when a subprogram in my brain
ﬂickers a warning. Something has changed. Ozgard senses
the tension and frowns as I walk past him to the shattered
obelisk I spotted earlier.
“What is wrong?” he whispers.
“There was a tree here…”
Ozgard comes to my side and squints at the obelisk. It is
a fractured piece of a throne. A broken wing is all that

remains of one of the armrests.
“This was the throne of Alia,” Ozgard whispers. “Seﬁ’s
mother.”
He leans to pick something from it. Several dark stones
roll in his palm. They are shaped like humans, but wrong.
Their phalluses are engorged, their craniums far too large
and studded with spikes.
“Ozgard, don’t react. We got company.” I motion down
with my eyes.
In a silvery pool of crushed nightgaze blossoms lies a
single bootprint. Next to it my boot looks no larger than a
Red child’s.
Ozgard drops the dark stones.
I lift my hand as if to scratch my head, brushing oﬀ my
pistol’s safety and activating my ear com. Static washes.
We’re being jammed. The wind whispers through the dead
city. Someone is out there. “Ozgard, I want you to stay on
my six. When I give the word, we go as fast as we can back
to the ship. Stick together.” He nods. “Now.”
Fear claws into my chest as we sprint back the way we
came. It is unexplainable, total, like the shrieking of cat
claws on a windowpane.
We race under the looming towers. Silver pollen sprays
around us as our boots turn nightgaze petals to pulp. Then
Ozgard stops. I wheel around, hissing at him to keep
running. Coated in silver pollen, he looks like a skeleton
made of mercury as he stares at something. I rush back to
him and ﬁnd him looking through the open face of a fallen
tower. Inside, illuminated by the phosphorescent ﬂowers, a
body pierced by three huge arrows hangs oﬀ the ground
like a ﬁsh on a line. A rusted iron hook punctures the neck,
loops through the jaw, and protrudes out between
shattered teeth. As the body sways on the chain, its face
turns to us, lower jaw hanging broken and unhinged.

It is Freihild.
Then I smell the stink of breath, feel heat on the back of
my neck. I stick my gun under my left armpit and pull the
trigger. The gun explodes in my hand as the barrel is
crumpled shut by a huge hand. My index ﬁnger twists like
kindling as I try to tear it free of the mangled gun.
“Ozgard! Run!”
I try to follow my own advice, but three dark shapes fall
to block my path. I fall to a knee in case they ﬁre, then strip
a thermal ﬂare from my belt and toss it, hoping they’re
wearing optics. I roll right, turn a corner, the thermal
ignites. A rippling tide of inky black rolls through the
nightgaze veins as the delicate petals are exposed to the
high-frequency light waves. I turn into a dead end of
rubble. There’s a soft thump behind me. I turn around and
ﬁnd myself staring eye to eye with two pits of darkness.
They are set within the giant head of a pale nightmare, and
it is crouching.
When the nightmare uncoils from its crouch, my eyes are
no higher than the melted face of an old tattoo obscured
behind its white chest hair. The Obsidian is big. Bigger than
Valdir. Bigger than any man I have ever seen. Metal
mingles with the pale ﬂesh of his arms and pectorals, and
ribs his trachea. His huge mouth is a blood-smeared maw.
And the language that seeps sluggishly from it is alien to
my ears.
“Ginjik kheljheenii nokhoinuud kjhichneen jijig ve.”
I try to step back.
A hand as large as my head seizes me and strokes my
cheek with its thumb. A metal nail sharp enough to ﬁllet
bone traces paths along my cheek, gently, almost
aﬀectionately. “Shhhhh.” The thermal ﬂare goes out.
Darkness again. The giant forces my right hand open and

puts something heavy and hot in it. Warm ﬂuid drips
between my ﬁngers. The iron smell of raw meat. “Stay.”
The giant ﬂows past me to stand in front of a witless
Ozgard, who has been dragged to us by several tall
shadows.
“We have heard your prophecy, shaman.” The giant
laughs at Ozgard’s wilted arm. “Who is a mongrel to
speak for the god? The Allfather speaks one truth,
and that is might.”
Ozgard comes alive and with a wild screech jerks his
knife toward the giant’s ribs. The giant catches the hand
and squeezes it against the knife hilt until Ozgard shrieks
and there’s a wet crumpling sound.
“You like prophecies, shaman. Here is my
prophecy.” The giant presses a metal-nailed thumb into
Ozgard’s right eye and submerges it to the knuckle.
Screams bubble out of Ozgard’s mouth as his eyeball
collapses and dark ﬂuid leaks down his face. “When next
you behold me, you will take the other.” The pale giant
laughs. “Only blinded do liars ﬁnally see.”
He tosses Ozgard to the ground as a spoiled child
discards an old toy. My friend paws at his mangled eye with
his broken hand. My own shake around the warm mass
they hold. I’ve seen war, but never felt this afraid. The
Obsidian gestures to my hands as ship lights carve the
darkness. It is a heart that has been gnawed upon.
Freihild’s heart. I feel the bile rising.
“The skuggi was worthy.” The giant bares a narrow
scratch on his neck. “I have honored her strength. It is
a part of me now. Gift her heart to your Liar Queen.
Tell her I have heard in the Ink she is Queen of All
Volk. I have come to contest her claim. Tell her: she is
now prey.”

The ship lights silhouette the monster. The shape of a
man barbed with metal eclipses me. “Who are you?” I call
after him as he walks to his ship.
Laughter corrupts the darkness around us. The giant
smiles as the darkness answers for him with a long groan
made of a single, distended syllable. “Fáaaaaa.”

***EphraimThe Ascomanni are real. And so is their king. It’s all I can

think about as a whirlpool of carrion eaters churns over the
body of Freihild. On the shoulder of the very mountain
where she was born, the host of Obsidians watches in
silence. Only the light of braziers holds back the winter
night. When the last bit of ﬂesh has been stripped away, the
great host melts into the gloom back to their ships. They
are solemn. Freihild was much loved, and this was a bad
death. One by one, the skuggi drop strands of hair onto her
bones and whisper something to her they never said to her
in life. They invite me to do the same. When it is my turn, I
look at the grisly remains and see Volga. I cannot shake the
feeling this is my fault instead of that of barbarians from
deep space. How ridiculous that sounds. Only hours ago,
Freihild was so full of life. So in love with her tribe, her
Queen, Valdir. How can I keep Volga from this fate, when
horror seems to follow me everywhere I go?

“I wish I could have seen you grow old,” I say, and
sprinkle several hairs over her bones. “You would have
been a sight.”
My chest tightens as I leave her to her last mourner. Seﬁ
watches from the distance as Valdir collects her bones to
sew them together with the hair given by her mourners.
Afterward he will hide her bones away in the high mountain
tombs of her kin. The bones clack like wet wood behind me.
Then an inhuman shriek comes from the man. I glance back
to see his great shoulders convulsing as he saws oﬀ his
hair, the great valor tail that no Gold could shear, and with
it ties together the bones of his lover.
Seﬁ ﬂies away.
—
A feast is thrown in Freihild’s honor in Seﬁ’s newly
appointed Griﬀinhold. It is a dour, ugly little aﬀair held
under the stupid faces of griﬀins carved by Olympian
artisans. More than anything, the Obsidians are confused
by my tale. They knew the outcast tribes of Mars and Earth
were pirates. Like the Republic, they called them
Ascomanni after the old legends. But now they must take
my word and Ozgard’s that the myth is true. That there’s
another breed out there. That Volsung Fá is as real as a
heart attack. It is a tough pill to swallow. Especially to
Valdir and his male warriors. They liked Freihild. They
don’t like me. And they like Ozgard even less. How
convenient it is for us to blame her death on myths from
deep space.
I sit amongst the skuggi at a low table in silence, nursing
a cup of hard liquor. Gudkind is missing. Seﬁ selected him
and several other pathﬁnders to assess the scene and
check the story Ozgard and I gave her.

At the high table with Seﬁ, the children, and the highestranking female jarls, the tribal leaders, Valdir drowns his
agony in endless horns of azag. His rage ferments like the
berry liquor that stains his lips purple. Not even the old
rough bastards with the long valor tails dare speak to him.
He stares across Seﬁ to Ozgard, the only other man at the
high table. The shaman, his eye patched, his hand in a cast,
withers under that hard gaze. Neither man listens to the
braves who stand one by one to toast Freihild’s memory
with trite little expressions of respect.
Deft in all things, but not dying, it seems.
Some deaths make all feel terribly mortal.
Xenophon, who stands by the cupbearers of the high
table, seems as unimpressed by the funeral toasts as I am.
The White spares me a grim nod. Of Seﬁ’s council, the
logos was not the only one skeptical about the tale of
Ascomanni but he was the most vocal. From the far end of
the table, Pax watches Valdir with narrowed eyes. Seﬁ
stands and lifts her horn.
“Freihild was born in bondage, but made herself free.
Her worth, if weighed, would make a mountain light as air.
She drinks now beside Ragnar, and feasts in the halls of
Valhalla. I swear on my brother’s blood, the creature known
as Volsung Fá will hang upon Griﬀinhold by his entrails. His
skin will be fed to mice. His heart to ﬁsh. His balls to dogs.
He and his Ascomanni are nomen. I declare ashvar upon
them. Forevermore, they stand enemy of Alltribe.”
“Skol!” the room grumbles. She sits, and as Xenophon
brings her a message, she fails to see the choleric rage
corrupting Valdir’s face.
“Lies,” the champion mouths. He stands, draws his axe,
and slams it through the table, breaking it nearly in half.
Cups of spirits and plates of meat tumble to the ﬂoor. Seﬁ’s
jaw ﬂexes as, to the horror of the host, he repeats his
accusation. “Lies.”

She whispers something to Valdir, and reaches for his
shoulder. He rips away from her. “Ascomanni?” He spits on
the broken table. “Ascomanni are scavengers. Flea-bitten
raiders too weak for our warbands. They have no king.
There is no Volsung Fá.” He thrusts a ﬁnger at Ozgard.
“You spun him from rumor. Like you spin all your shit.” He
ﬂings a hand at Xenophon. “The White does not believe
your lie. When has the White been wrong?”
Seﬁ remains seated, and turns to look out at the host
instead of her fuming mate. Maybe she thinks if she ignores
him, she can let this insult slide, and that Valdir will not go
too far in his accusations.
Big fool just might. “I saw the tracks myself. I saw no
hunt signs. No traces of evil Obsidian from the dark.
Freihild would never be taken unaware, even by myths. She
is not blind.” He looks at Seﬁ, then back to the shaman.
“She was shot from the front by a bow at no more than
twenty paces. How would Freihild, skuggi, Minetaker,
Drakeslayer, be so stupid? How could she die when two
weaklings did not?”
“Did I take my own eye?” Ozgard says in protest.
“Odin did. What is an eye to a fool? Your only weapon is
your tongue.”
“I saw Volsung Fá. A creature from the blackness! From
the edge of the Ink itself. He spoke in the lost tongue! He
challenged our Queen! Grarnir saw what I saw.” Great.
Thanks, oldboy.
Valdir nearly tips over as he turns to glare at me. “The
Gray is a whore, who will do anything for money. Did you
pay him to lie, Ozgard? To pretend it was Ascomanni? Or
did you, my Queen?”
The room goes dead quiet.
If duels were allowed, any brave could call him out for
challenging their honor like that. But to challenge the

Queen’s…shit. I don’t know. She could probably just kill
him here. An insult to her honor is an insult to the tribe.
Punishable by death. Still she does not move. Valdir is the
heart of the male braves. Their pride, their Big Brother.
Gods, I feel for her.
“Seﬁ the Quiet,” Valdir crows, stumbling as he waves his
arms about. “No need to use that cold tongue. Your eyes
sang your jealousy. I saw. We all saw. Did you decide to kill
her because she took the mines? Or because she killed the
drake? Or because she held my heart in her hands? Or
because she is young? And you are old?”
“Your cock is yours,” Seﬁ says out to the host. “Fuck a
goat for all I care. But your valor is your tribe’s. Do not
sully it by wagging your tongue like stupid heatlander.”
“You feel nothing,” he hisses into her face. “It is not you
who is quiet. It is your andi.” He grabs the ﬂagon from his
cupbearer and shoves his way out of the room. Pax lifts his
eyebrows to me and Electra takes the azag from the
neighboring jarl and downs the whole horn.
Seﬁ sighs and eats a grape from a spilled dish. She
waves to the open doors, where light snow drifts down. “It
is foul weather outside. Much thunder.” She admires the
high walls and vaulted ceiling. “Stone echoes loudly, but it
remains stone. Strong, with no memory.” She smiles at her
host, her message clear and clever. “Minstrels! Drown out
the thunder, please.”
Many laugh as the minstrels pour into the hall. But not
all. Not Valdir’s cadre of male braves. Not the skuggi. Not
me.
As the minstrels sing, I feel the need for fresh air. I stand
in the archway between the Bellona doors to watch snow
fall on Olympia. Even in the night, the construction does
not pause. Skyscrapers rise anew.

“Seems your myths have a nasty bite,” I say. Familiar soft
footsteps approach from the hall. Pax extends a hand out
into the snow.
“I told you they weren’t myths. I just said they were far
away.”
“Looks like you don’t know everything.” I squint over at
him. “You believe me, right?”
“I believe you think you saw Ascomanni. But from your
description, they seemed to be built the same as our
Obsidians. After several hundred years, that would be
unlikely.”
“I only saw Fá clearly. The others were…it was dark and
fast.” I chew the inside of my cheek. “You think it might
have been imposters?”
“I don’t know. It doesn’t make sense. If it is the real
Volsung Fá, how did he get here so fast? How did he make
it to the surface? Why did he target Freihild? The
Ascomanni raiders in the Belt are resourceful, but none
could evade the Republic sensor grid, or the instruments of
the Pandora.”
“Maybe he was already here,” I say. “Maybe he knew Seﬁ
was coming here.”
“How would he know that?” Pax asks.
I glance back into the hall where Ozgard watches the
minstrels from Seﬁ’s side. “That is the question, isn’t it?
The two servants in Seﬁ’s favor, Ozgard and I, walk away
with their lives. The one screwing her concubine hangs on
a hook.”
“Do you believe Valdir then?” he asks. “That Ozgard is
complicit?”
“I don’t have a bloody clue. All I know is that Fá is the
scariest man I’ve ever met. And I’ve met quite a few.” In
the hall, Seﬁ departs. Xenophon heads our way.

“One question puzzles me the most,” Pax says. “Why
would the Ascomanni have any interest in the Alltribe? For
ﬁve hundred years, the only enemy they knew was
themselves and the Moon Lords.” He hesitates. “And the
Fear Knight.”
He’s prevented from saying more, and takes on a
thoughtful expression as Xenophon arrives.
“The Queen would like a private word. With both of you.”
Xenophon motions us to follow. I linger behind with Pax.
“You and Hatchetface wearing your harnesses?” I ask.
“Always.”
“Good lad.”
—
In her private chamber, Seﬁ hunches over the ﬁre as I tell
her for the third time what I already told her underlings of
our night in the ruins. Her gloved ﬁnger strokes Aja’s razor.
Electra slouches by the ﬁre, poking it with her own ﬁnger.
Pax remains quiet, not yet addressed.
“You know humans well,” Seﬁ says carefully to me.
“Did…did it seem to you that Ozgard knew this Fá?”
I look between her and Xenophon. “Who is asking?”
“I am,” Seﬁ says.
“I don’t think so. He looked scared shitless. But I’m not a
Bloodhound.”
She purses her lips and looks at Pax. “Do you believe
Volsung Fá is real?”
“Yes. The context of the RRD briefs my mother passed to
me suggest he is a myth to the pirates, but a real ﬁgure in
the Kuiper Belt. However, we have intercepted tightbeams
with phrases such as ‘the Fá orders’ or ‘send them to the
Fá,’ followed by instructions. Not just as an epigram.”
She mulls this over. “You remember these messages?”

“Verbatim, however it could simply be they’ve adopted
the word Fá as a title.”
“You will transcribe the message for Xenophon.” The
White stands apart from us, keeping record. Pax says he
will. “This Fá. Did your mother believe he is from the Far
Ink?”
“According to classiﬁed Society records, yes. There is a
civilization there, as you know. One that has harried the
Moon Lords for years. But the transit would take over a
year’s sail on a destroyer. And the Moon Lord sensors are
at least as sophisticated as ours. They hunt down
Ascomanni as they do everything—thoroughly.”
Seﬁ frowns in thought. “If he could make the transit,
what size of force could he wield?”
“Again, that would be guesswork,” Pax says. “Fifty
thousand if the raiders in the Inner Belt are his allies. If his
real strength is in the Kuiper Belt…it would be ridiculous to
even posit a guess. But even if it is a large force, the
convoy required to ferry them here would have been
spotted by the Moon Lords.”
“Maybe they sent them,” Seﬁ hazards.
“Romulus would rather die than ally with Obsidians,” Pax
says.
“He allied with your father.”
“Romulus would never ally with Obsidians.”
“Men change.” She shrugs, probably thinking of Valdir.
If Seﬁ arranged this to kill Freihild, she’s putting on an
elaborate show. “I believe it time to consult with your
mother, Electra,” Seﬁ says. Electra keeps prodding the ﬁre.
“Republic must think we are strong, we cannot ask them.
Will she aid us if we need assistance?”
“It’ll cost you one of us,” Electra says. “She’ll ask for me.
You’ll say no. She’ll block your calls until you’re attacked.
She’ll call and ask for me again. You fear you won’t have

leverage if you give me. So you’ll give Pax—with his
parents likely dead he means less in the macro. But it’s Pax
she wants, because she’ll put Darrow and Virginia over
herself and Da, and because it is moral.”
“Well, that was brutally succinct,” I mutter.
She just glowers at the ﬁre, stooped and unhappy. The
door bursts open. Braga, Pax’s chief bodyguard, and one of
Seﬁ’s wingsisters, stand with tears in their eyes.
—
The stone stairs up to the griﬀins’ aerie are covered with
feathers and dander. There’s sobbing from above. Blind
Obsidian stablemasters weep into their hands. When we
arrive at the roost, we are greeted with a scene of carnage.
Seﬁ staggers past pools of blood and half a dozen
butchered stablehands toward the pale mass of her griﬀin.
Godeater lies on the ﬂoor, her neck hacked to the bone. Her
huge eyes stare wide and terriﬁed at the ceiling as she
twitches in agony. The rest of the griﬀins are gone. I can
barely make out their silhouettes against the moonlight
over Olympia as they ﬂy toward Loch Esmeralda.
The stablemasters dare not approach Godeater. Her long
claws rake against the stone in pain. Only when Seﬁ
approaches with her throat bared does the beast still. Seﬁ
strokes her muzzle and puts her head to its great sternum.
Frowning at what she hears, she closes her eyes to look at
the griﬀin’s spirit. Pax watches thoughtfully as she drives
her razor into Godeater’s heart. Seﬁ breathes in the
griﬀin’s death rattle, and wraps her arms around its neck
before standing.
Several dozen Valkyrie stand sweating beyond the dead
animal. The mangled corpses of three of their sisters lie
broken and hacked as if by a mindless monster. Medical
teams attend three survivors. The rest part for Seﬁ. Valdir

kneels on the stable ﬂoor amidst the straw. He is drenched
head to toe in blood and covered with long gashes from the
griﬀin’s talons. Burn marks from stun weapons congeal
patches of the blood. The axe he murdered Godeater and
the Valkyrie with lies on the ﬂoor covered with feathers and
viscera.
He pants like a dog on a hot day. Muscles twitch from
residual electric shock.
“Did you love her so?” Seﬁ whispers.
“As much as I loved you before you became stone.” His
voice morphs into a mad growl, making Seﬁ tilt her head.
“You feared she would become queen instead of your Volga.
My pathﬁnders found skip trace back to the Echo of
Ragnar.” At ﬁrst I thought I misheard him, until Pax and
Electra glance at me, just as confused. Valdir’s head
twitches as he twists it around. His teeth are purple and
pulled back in a primal grimace. “Do you feel anything now,
Seﬁ?”
Seﬁ takes the stunFist from Beildi, one of her
bodyguards, and shoots him again and again and again
until he steams on the ﬂoor, ﬂat and laughing. Only when I
call her name does Seﬁ pause, just short of killing him. She
drops the stunFist and orders without a trace of emotion,
“Bind this creature and throw it in the deep cells.”
In one of the stables, Pax crouches by a discarded ﬂagon
of azag. “Give that here,” I say, taking over as Valdir is
dragged from the room. I signal Xenophon and several
minutes later one of his aides returns with a sample kit. We
feed several drops of azag in. When the readout comes,
Xenophon’s hand twitches.
“What is it?” Seﬁ demands. Xenophon lets the kit go, and
I bring it to Seﬁ. She takes it in her bloody hands and her
face grows dark with rage. “Bring me the shaman.”

“There is no proof that it was his doing,” Xenophon
intones. “I caution you against—”
“Obey, servant!”
—
Twenty long minutes later, I watch Ozgard fall to his knees,
begging for Seﬁ to believe he did not put the fever cloud
mushroom into Valdir’s azag. The Queen watches him from
inside her sanctum as snow falls outside. She has not
spoken since the Valkyrie dragged him in. Half of
Griﬀinhold writhes in rumor, half in grief.
“All I have done, I have done for you, my Queen,” Ozgard
begs, and I believe he thinks as much. Valdir was always a
threat to him, a skeptic of his prophecies, a man who held
sway over Seﬁ’s heart in a way he never could. I know the
type. In his story to me on the ice, he seemed tragic and
noble in his lies. But now the underbelly of that self-myth
reveals the reptile. He ﬁnally saw his chance to end a
competitor, a man he could never challenge, who mocked
him daily. And he took it.
Still he bleats on. When even he runs out of words, Seﬁ
ﬁnally looks at him.
“You brought us to Mars, Ozgard. You helped me believe
in the Alltribe, and make my brother’s dream. For that, I
am in your debt. Your prophecy is the andi of the tribe now.
I will not sully it. But this is the last time I speak to you. For
good of tribe, you will live amongst us, but you are a
shadow to be seen, never heeded, never heard, never
noticed. Begone.”
The shaman knows better than to call her bluﬀ. Broken,
he looks at me. Yeah, right, oldboy. You’re on your own. He
stands and shuﬄes toward the door. “Ozgard.” He stops
and turns to his Queen in hope. “I will ﬁnd the truth. If
this…Fá is known to you, there will be no mercy.”

The Valkyrie shove him out.
Of the four in Seﬁ’s council when ﬁrst she hired me, only
the human calculator remains. This fact almost makes me
hold my tongue. Almost.
“Why would Volga be queen?” I ask.
Seﬁ nods, expecting the question. She gestures to the
hearth and calls for the servant to bring wine. I do not join
her in sitting. She watches Amel’s replacement open the
bottle and pour the wine. Xenophon samples it, nods, and
returns to his perch behind her shoulder. She drinks
heavily and gestures for me to join her.
“I don’t think I’ll be drinking anything around here
anytime soon. Why would Volga be queen? What was Valdir
growling about?”
She twirls the wine with her gloved hand. Xenophon
pipes up. “Your Majesty knows I was hesitant with regard
to the hiring of Mr. Horn. I believe he has contradicted my
assessment. More than ever, he is of value to the Alltribe.
Show him or you will lose him.”
A shadow of herself, Seﬁ listens to her White. She takes
oﬀ her coat, then her vest underneath, and rolls up her
right sleeve and removes her glove and a thin layer of a
medical wrap. The limb smells of rotting meat.
I recoil. “What is that?”
“Yellow death,” she replies.
Her skin is sulfur yellow and hideous. Mottled scales
climb from her elbow down to her hand. Raw ﬁssures crack
the skin and wind through the patches to weep murky pus.
Where she would have held her griﬀin’s reins, a strip of
raw skin shows where the scales sheaved oﬀ. Fresh scales
are already pushing their way to the surface. She winces as
she moves the hand.
“A gift from Atalantia,” she says. “It is a designer poison.
It corrupts the DNA itself, I am told. It cannot be contained

by removing the arm. If the arm is removed, it moves to
ﬁnd another region of the body.” She rolls her hand around
to inspect it. “It has not conquered me yet, despite what
Valdir thinks. It disgusts him, as it should. That is why I let
him lie with Freihild. It is why I grew cold to him. What it
touches, it infects.”
“And it’s why you couldn’t draw the bow.”
“At times I grow weak until the pain passes. For all the
medici and scientists, it is only Xenophon who slows it. But
I was foolish. I did not take his medicine on the hunt. Old
Creed.” She grimaces. “It cannot be stopped by any means
we possess, or all our helium can buy.”
“When?”
“Several years still,” Xenophon says. “Her Majesty is
strength.”
Seﬁ grimaces at that and tries to wrap the medical
bandage back around, but fumbles. Tenderly, Xenophon
kneels and helps her, taking care not to touch the skin.
Gently, the White ﬁts her glove back on and rolls down her
sleeve. She smiles absently at the loyal servant in
gratitude.
“In my time, I did what no one has done. I have united
the tribes of all Ice.” She snorts. “Most Ice, at least. But
they have not forgotten their old feuds or the Old Creed.
When I die…Valdir would lead them to more of Tyr Morga’s
wars. Only one thing can bind them, maybe in peace. The
blood of Ragnar. I am not the last to carry it. Volga is
Ragnar’s daughter.”
I feel hit by a train. “Naw. She was born on Luna. She
was an experiment. A tube baby.”
“In a breeding stable run by the family Grimmus, the
owners of my brother, my father, his father before him. My
father, Vagnar the Pale Horse, was their prized stud. He
begat scores of spawn. When he coupled with my mother to

make their brood, he had long been in the stars. It was his
privilege to return to the ice on the condition he make more
slaves. In time, he’d made enough. He took my brother and
me hunting one last time before the gods called him back. I
never saw him again. When they took Ragnar…” She
shakes her head. “They found a more practical method. A
way to make as many spawn as they desired and keep him
at their wars.”
“How many?”
“Two hundred from his seed. We thought all died when
the Jackal’s atomics destroyed the facility. But when the
Julii captured Volga, she ran her DNA.”
“Who else knows?”
“Valdir, Ozgard, and Xenophon. This is second reason
why I push toward modern age. So when I die, Volga will
not be seen as abomination Golds made, but Queen. I
heeded Xenophon’s warnings. Truly, I feared Ozgard’s
ambition to seize the mines. It is too much to risk to make a
kingdom for a prophecy, when I knew it would shatter at
my death…My DNA is corrupt. It would transfer to any kin.
But with a living heir with Ragnar’s blood…”
“You were going to use her.” So much for her
benevolence, for giving her back to me. I wasn’t earning
Volga’s freedom. Seﬁ was going to keep her all along. We’re
all pieces on a board to her.
“I am going to give her a kingdom. My brother’s blood
will fulﬁll our dream for our people.”
“And you wanted me to be your spokesman, to vouch for
you,” I say, backing away from her. “That’s why you bought
me with a ship, took me on the hunt, had Ozgard pour
honey in my ear. Not for me but because you needed me to
recruit her. To drag her into this…” I surprise her with
applause. “What a clever lady you are.”
“Volga belongs here. With her people. Even if she is…”

“An abomination?” I smirk. “You’ve thought it all out. But
you got one problem.” I tap my temple. “I know how the
rest of this plays, and it’s all downhill. Dreamers die bad.”
“Mr. Horn. Ephraim, my people deserve a future without
war. It cannot be done in my time, but in Volga’s it may be.
I need her. My people need her—”
Her world is Freihild on a hook. Ozgard scheming and
poisoning his way into halls of power. Valdir butchering
women and dreaming of the war I ran from. Seﬁ was
crueler from the start than Volga ever could be, and even
she drowns in yellow death and deceit. Now we’re adding
barbarian enemies from the Ink? Fuck that.
“This place would eat Volga like it’s eating you. That girl
might have your blood, but I’m her people. She deserves
more than dying for yours. If you want her as your heir, it’ll
be over my dead fucking body.”

***LyriaI fold the newest letter from Volga so that the light can

catch the words. Written on a strip of her jumpsuit’s
legging, it is her longest yet. The penmanship is poor and
untidy. The letters awkwardly cramped together. I smile to
think of the large woman hunched over a bit of nail trying
to cram as much in as possible. Though my handwriting is
better, I know fewer words than the thief, and puzzle over
the longer ones. It’s a right shame Kavax and I never got
very far in our lessons. Felt safe in that big man’s company,
him stooped over my cramped writing, then leaning back
with a smile to praise it.
I squint down at the letter.

You are lucky to have had a father, even if he was not
so kind all the time. I wish I had a father to tell me
ghost stories of Golback the Dark Creeper. It sounds like
a legend I once heard in Hyperion from a deepspace
trader. Long ago, after the Dark Revolt, the Obsidians

who survived the great purge went beyond the moons
and there they became less than men. In darkness,
they learned to hunt other men. After hundreds of
years, a king amongst them rose. They call him Volsung
Fá, Volsung the Taker. Eater of men and ships. He is said
to be out there now. Waiting for new ships to eat. They
say he carries a chain of enemy skulls. It is a ridiculous
story but very scary. Ha. Ha.
Your brother Dagan sounds much like Ephraim. Very
mean because he fears loss. So he makes himself
alone. I like Aengus better. Happy people make me
happy. But there are so few of them. I hope they are
safe on Mercury. If they are with the Reaper, they will
likely come home heroes. It is good Aengus showed you
how to explore the vents. All should explore. I do not
know why they make you girls wear dresses, though.
Maybe to make it hurt more to explore. Who knows.
Maybe they made Red women weaker than Red men on
purpose? Ephraim says Obsidian women are weaker but
smarter than Obsidian men. I think we are smarter than
all men. Ha. Ha.
Smiling, and ﬁnding myself unable to decipher only about
twenty percent of the words, I ﬂip the strip of cloth over.

Like you I did not see the sun until I was grown, when
they sent me from Luna to Earth. My world was small
too. There were many doctors. Want to know something
ridiculous about me? My body is backwards. My liver to
the left. My heart to the right. Not even close to center.
I don’t know why they did that. Maybe just to see if they
could.
I remember many needles, and they would watch us
sleep, and sometimes hurt us if we did not obey. A dark
woman would come and watch us play. She had a great

skull ring and many beautiful dresses. And a necklace
made of a snake. A snake! One day she gave me a toy
ship. I would lie in my bed at night with that ship and
dream of space. I thought one day, I would sail it and be
a pirate like in the stories. Not a bad pirate. But not a
good one. Good is boring. I would be dreadful but fair,
and would only steal from bad people. They deserve it,
you know? I would not have a bird like Orion xe Aquarii,
but a gorilla. Have you ever seen a jadeback gorilla? My
Jove, they are scary. Maybe when we leave here, we
can be pirates together. You can have the sword, but
only I get the gorilla. Ha. Ha.
Tell me about the Sovereign, if you do not mind. I
have always wanted to meet her. Her soldiers were very
frightening, but not cruel. That is the sign of a good
ruler. Strength, but decency. Yes?
—Your friend, Volga.
And I will have Manchurian steak, rare, with corn and
greens when we escape. Your fresh fruit is boring. Had
too much on Earth. Berries are for Pixies.
She ends each letter the same. “Your friend.”
It seemed a quirk at ﬁrst, but reads more desperately
with each letter, as if she’s pleading for me to end my
letters the same. I won’t. We ain’t friends. We’re both just
desperate to not disappear without a trace. In the real
world, she’s a killer. I’ve seen her in action, all kitted up
with hardware. She was made in a laboratory anyway. What
the Hades do Golds make in a laboratory with Obsidians
except weapons?
Still…she did fail. They did drop her on Earth to haul
freight.

There I go again, trying to make excuses for her. It’s
damn hard not to.
She’s adorable, for a killing machine raised by a devious
cur.
I carefully tear a strip of cloth from my jumpsuit. The
sleeves are already gone, soon both legs will be too. I pick
the scab on my ﬁnger and dab my nail into the wound.
Then the light freezes in the middle of an indigo pattern.
For the ﬁrst time in months the music stops.
Light pours in from a hallway as the door opens.
I stare like an old bat. This cell is mine now. My territory.
Two terrifying Grays in heavy combat gear emblazoned
with a screaming Julii sun enter. Fuck, they look scary. Both
are modiﬁed with metal facial implants connected to
sockets on their thick necks. One’s nose is as ﬂat as my
chest, and pitted with some weird pattern like he caught
the bad end of a chemical attack or something. Sol Guards.
Maybe it’s not my cell after all.
Then a woman joins them.
If I weren’t hanging from the ceiling by my own legless,
sleeveless jumpsuit, I’d probably rush her all manic and get
my skull split by one of those Sols.
This woman once stuck a needle in my chest, but she
doesn’t look like a devil.
If anything, she’s got the look of an old, tired owl. Brown,
frizzy hair. Lean and small compared with the Grays. But
athletic. She stands like a dancer. Her skin is bootleather,
her eyes narrow and mean, and she has a nose you could
shelter beneath in a downpour.
Yet there’s something oﬀ about her.
She seems like she’s in pain. Not emotional, pure and
physical.

The woman tidies her expensive silk leisure suit as if she
was some highborn Gold. Her only weapon is a slim silver
pistol in a lowslung holster. “I see you have adapted,” she
drawls. “But adaptability is never something Reds have
been accused of being short of. Intelligence, on the other
hand…”
I say nothing.
“Paciﬁed too. Hmm. Scurry down from there, you little
monkey. We got business.”
I don’t.
“Told Julii she’d go mad,” she mutters under her breath
to the Sol Guards. They don’t seem to like her much at all.
“What business?” I ask.
Ignoring me, she bends down to riﬄe through the small
stack of Volga’s letters, which I’ve secured in the crease
between the food tube and the ﬂoor.
“Don’t touch those,” I snap.
“I must confess, it was interesting to watch. Transit
voyages on warships can be tedious, you understand, even
with the HC being so full of drama—so thank you for the
entertainment.” She begins to read from one of the letters.
“My favorite time of day is the early morning. Before it is
really morning, but when it’s not quite night. The world is
very still. And if you watch closely, you can see it breathe as
it wakes up.”
“Those are mine.”
“Takers, keepers, darling.” She begins to read again. I
pull myself up to create some slack, and untie the knot so I
can fall to the ﬂoor. I manage to land on my feet. “There.
Now, that’s a predictable monkey.”
I extend a hand. She throws the letters at me and
watches me as I collect them. “Hardheaded, softhearted.
Bad combination. That Obsidian is one dangerous
customer, lass—”

“I know.”
“No. You really don’t. And the Syndicate bounty on her…
Julii’s lucky I’ve a professional code.” She whistles.
“Wonder what would have happened if you and the beast
had to share the same cell and no food. How long before
she gobbled up your scrawny little monkey legs? Two days?
Four?” She reﬂects on that a moment. “Probably four. Volga
does like to pretend she’s warm and cuddly, even to
herself.”
I don’t rush to Volga’s defense. The Brown is so odd. Her
nails are painted a brilliant shade of orange. She wears two
great diamond rings. And her tanned skin is etched with
ornate white lines. Almost like a blueprint.
“What kind of Brown are you supposed to be?” I ask,
stuﬀing the letters into my jumpsuit.
“Brown?” She grins. “I’m whatever my employer pays me
to be. And I’ve never quite had anyone pay as well as
Madam Barca.”
“Mercenary.” I spit at her feet.
“Hold her down,” she tells the guards. “I want to spit in
her eye.”
“Do it yourself, scum,” one of them says, a Martian from
Apollonia by his accent. “You’re not our centurion.”
“Scum. Mercenary,” she hisses in irritation. “Why does
no one abide the word freelancer?” I blink and she’s noseto-nose with me. Her hand is around my throat. “Call me
Fig.”
My eyes open in surprise and Fig spits a big hot wad of
spit right in the left one. She pushes me as I aim a knee at
her cunny. Caught oﬀ balance, I trip over her foot behind
my left heel and sprawl on my ass.
“Bitch.” I ﬁght to get up, but Fig steps back, activating
the room’s lights. She moves about the room with a speed
that seems almost unnatural, tapping a pattern in the

contorted shapes. As Fig touches each bit of the light, the
room begins to sprout new ﬁxtures. First a sheet of ﬂooring
pulls back and a bed with a cozy wooden frame rises from
the ﬂoor. She touches a few more bits of the light, and a
ﬁre springs up. Then a spit of roasting meat, a table, and a
cobbled stone on the ﬂoor.
And the puzzle is solved. I had suspicions there was a
code.
The room then becomes lost in a Europan storm. All the
walls are replaced by images of a roaring sea. Monsters
move in the ocean. Waves crash at the windows. But in the
midst of the storm the ﬁre crackles. A full kitchen of
delights awaits. Floating ﬂame globes drift over a case of
weapons big enough to hunt prey bigger than men. And an
image, just like the famous mural on the Senate ceiling,
bleeds into the storm clouds above, a picture of Darrow and
a glorious, comely Sevro standing over a beheaded woman.
Even I know it’s Aja au Grimmus. Lionheart is oﬀ to the
side preening, and a stooped, ugly, but very tall man in
pristine white armor patterned with birds and a sun looks
sheepishly at the blood.
“Didn’t you realize it was a puzzle?” She’s mocking me.
“Low intelligence quotient, I suppose.” Fig examines me,
less than impressed. “At ﬁrst I thought you were on Eph’s
crew. But now…” She laughs at me. “Just can’t understand
how you made such a dent on the oldboy. Maybe he’s gone
senile. Who knows. Quite a turn he’s had of late, however.”
She sees my confusion. “Don’t you know? Eph’s a regular
hero with the Obsidians. A real bloodbrave.” Fig snorts.
“He’s arranged for your exchange. Yours and the big lass.
So move your ass.”
Did I mishear? “My exchange?”
“I’d pay half my salary to know why. But that man and I
don’t exactly get along anymore. Strawberry Lacuna, long,
hot night in Adonis, the camel.” She winces. “Long story.

The White is our intermediary, anyhow. But I’ll tell you,
something’s got Seﬁ all hot and spicy.” Her eyes go distant
as she considers what it could be. But not in a human way.
More like a hyperneedle on a silk loom pausing, then
stuttering quickly back into motion. She snaps her ﬁngers
at the Grays. “Clean her up, the Alltribe’s got a boat
inbound.” They don’t move. “Julii’s orders, not mine. Do it.”
They grab me and haul me to the door.
“Where are we?” I ask as they pull me into the hall. “This
some sort of prison barge?” The Grays laugh to each other.
“A prison barge,” one cries. “Naw, lass. Welcome to the JBS
Pandora.”
They push me into the light. The room is huge. Not a
prison block, but some sort of simulation training deck.
Dozens of pilots and infantry queue for the simulators,
which form a honeycomb along the crescent wall. Even I
know the Pandora. A ship synonymous with House Julii.
Nearly two hundred years old, a predator of the deep, and
veteran of a hundred battles, or something like that.
Then I see Volga.
While only two guards were needed to guide me out to
the walkway, ten surround the Obsidian. She’s taller than
the tallest Gray by at least two hands, though she hunches
to seem smaller. Her jumpsuit is destroyed from letter
writing, and her frazzled white hair looks one part tragic,
one part feral. But those arms…those legs…They look more
like knotted Cimmerian cebola trees than human limbs.
They could break me in half with a twist.
Maybe that’s why my hands are free and hers are bound
behind her back in reinforced cuﬀs. Her eyes widen as she
sees me, and she smiles awkwardly until she sees Fig. Her
eyes go rancid. “Figment!”
“You gilded idiots,” Fig snaps at the Sol Guards. “I told
you to put a slave ring on the bear!”

“She’s just—”
Fig slips forward and secures a thin bit of metal around
Volga’s neck. “Hands,” Fig orders, gesturing in front of
Volga. Fig slaps Volga across the face and the slave ring
crackles till I smell burning skin. Wincing, Volga brings her
hands around. The Grays back away and raise their riﬂes
warily as her cuﬀs drop to the ﬂoor with a thunk.
Somehow she unlocked herself.
I grin a little. That’s a freelancer all right.
Unfortunately, she ain’t the only one. Fig produces a
spiderlike contraption from her belt pouch. Fourteen rings
constrict around the tips of Volga’s ﬁngers, interlocking
them as a thin wire snakes around her waist. “Not like last
time, big girl. Made this specially for us.”
Volga’s voice is deep and mocking. “Fig the Pig. I thought
I broke your spine in Old Tokyo.”
“You did.” Figment sniﬀs Volga. “Gods, you smell ripe as
a dead seal. Good to see you again.” Volga grunts. “Julii
wants you doused in cinnamon before we give you back to
the old man. He’s probably worried stiﬀ. What’s a man like
that to do without his bear to kick? Move.”
They shove us toward the gravLift.
“It is nice to meet you, Lyria,” Volga whispers down to
me as we load in. It earns her another jolt from Fig. Volga
ﬂinches and turns to look at the woman over the heads of
the Grays. She stares at her until the doors open. “I was
just being polite.”
They take us to a barracks locker room. It’s older than
the rest of the ship. Some of the lockers look like those in
Lagalos. At least two hundred years old, then. There’s not a
spot of rust here, though. Volga is guided to another block,
escorted by Fig. My lone Sol Guard tosses a change of
clothing on a bench and gives me a crooked smile from
behind his helmet’s jaw armor. Doesn’t look much older

than me. “Pipes tend to rattle in this one.” He shows me
the spigot handle and the dryer controls. “Name’s Paxton.
So you’re, like, a badass thief or something?”
I laugh, but he doesn’t get what’s funny.
“You know Ephraim ti Horn?” I ask.
His eyes narrow. “Of him.”
“What’s he doing with the Obsidian?”
“He’s a merc, ain’t he? Seﬁ’s got a big purse.”
“All Grays are mercs. You’re paid to kill for the Julii, ain’t
you?”
He squares up with me. “Julii’s mum paid for my father’s
house on the Thermic, and my mother’s burial when she
died forty years out of service. Julii herself has given me a
birthday present every birthday of my life.” He pats his
riﬂe. “Gave me this on my seventeenth. Where I come from,
that’s loyalty.” His voice lowers. “From what we hear, you
worked for the Telemanuses. I know some boys over there.
Loud fuckers, but good lot.” He looks me up and down,
eyes going sinister. “Not like you Vox rats.”
“I’m not Vox.”
All hundred kilos of man and thirty of armor step
forward. “People like you are why Lionheart’s dead. Why
Reaper’s in the pinch. Fuckin’ wastes of carbon’s what.”
I blink at him. “The Sovereign’s dead?”
“You happy about that? Not enough just to steal her
boy?” His ﬁst balls at his side. “If it weren’t the madam that
needed you in one piece, I’d teach you a lesson right here.”
He winks and smiles. “Enjoy your hot shower.”
I wait for him to leave and turn on the spigot. Sure
enough, the pipes rattle like an old man’s knees. I should
feel soothed by the hot water. Instead I feel numb. The
Sovereign is dead?
I can’t imagine that shining woman as a corpse.

How could she be dead?
The guards shout at me to get moving. I wash out the
shampoo and reach for the spigot nodule when I hear a thin
shriek. But I didn’t twist the nodule yet…
The sound becomes a high-pitched frequency that makes
my ears ache. Then it stops before beginning again. I turn
oﬀ the shower and creep through the steam toward the
noise. Maybe a broken air ﬁlter? The sound grows more
intense as I reach the far wall.
I lean closer, looking for the source, and a burning
sensation makes a thin line down the side of my head. I
lurch back as if bitten.
There’s nothing there.
Just a metal bulkhead. Something hot drips down my
neck. I touch it and my hand comes back wet with blood. I
trace the left side of my head and ﬁnd a razor-thin gash
running from skull to earlobe.
What the…
I couldn’t see it from the straight-on angle, but now I see
it from the side—a blade emerging from the wall, so thin it
is almost invisible. Viewed from the side, it is as ﬂat as a
butcher’s cleaver. Small teeth blur as they vibrate on the
bottom. The blade disappears back into the wall.
Steam seeps through the thin cuts in the metal. Three
cuts, together making a triangle. There’s a clunk and I
barely scramble back to grab hold of the shower station
when the triangle in the wall becomes a tunnel four meters
long as a section of the bulkhead disappears backward into
space.
I brace myself for the decompression.
It never comes. No alarm wail. I turn to look.
Steam swirls into the triangular hole. On the far end of
the tunnel a viscous membrane seals the tunnel’s exit.

When I see it growing on the inner aperture, I backpedal
and call for Fig.
She comes around the corner irritated until she stops
dead in her tracks, eyes on the hole. The membrane has
grown fast, now covering the hole like the head of a drum.
Dark red veins slither through the ﬂeshy substance.
Something happens to Fig. A pulse goes through her that
makes my hairs stand on end. The white lines on her skin
throb and her ﬂesh ripples, and then subdivides to thicken
until it looks like the scales of a lizard.
Her slender pistol appears in her hand.
I hear wet thumps behind me and turn to see dark
shapes emerge from the membrane. They fall on the ﬂoor
dripping with viscera like stillborn babies.
But they aren’t babies. And they aren’t dead.
If anything, they look like they are sleeping.

***LyriaSoon the room is filled

with armored men and heavy
weapons as Fig summons our escort of Sol Guards. Human
faces become metal screaming suns as their helmets slither
closed. I only just remember I’m naked. I shove on the
clothes and shoes Paxton set out and let the guards push
me over to Volga. She stands dripping. The guards didn’t
undo the cuﬀs or take her out of her jumpsuit for her
shower.
Figment approaches the sleeping intruders as the Sol
Guards fan around them.
“Backup inbound,” a Sol Guard growls to Fig.
“Are they dead?” Paxton asks.
“Zilch on thermal except respiratory exhaust. They’re
barely breathing.”
“Obsidian?”
“That one’s too small. It’s like a baboon. And look at the
size of their heads.”

Six long men and one powerfully built, but shorter even
than me, lie on the ﬂoor completely naked, with long, pale
leather packs strapped onto their backs.
No, not men.
There’s something wrong with them. The dark, earth-red
skin that covers them looks more like hide. White scars
make intricate lines over it. Amphibian-like folds cover
their eyes, ears, and nostrils. Their heads are unnaturally
large and shaved except for long black tails of coarse hair.
Grease from the membrane shimmers on their skin.
The small one shows the ﬁrst signs of movement.
He looks up at us through the steam with a ﬂat human
face, though his passive black eyes are as big as eggs.
There’s a soft crack and he begins to chew. Blood pours out
his thin-lipped mouth. Bits of glass tinkle on the ﬂoor. He
shudders in ecstasy.
“Shoot it if it moves,” the lead grunt barks.
Paxton toggles his sights. The light in the room spasms
oﬀ, then back on. A low whine goes through the ship.
“What was that?” Fig asks the soldiers.
“Electronic surge.”
Fig tilts her head at the small creature. “Fuck this.” She
shoots it in the chest. The creature is kicked back three
meters by the blast. It lies with a hole in its guts, as if the
skin parted itself for some invisible wedge. There is no
burning scent.
Never seen anything like that gun.
It made the light in the room bend. The soldiers glance
sideways at the weapon, but Fig’s already dialing the big
bitch.
“Madam Julii, a situation is developing on L22Z2. We
have a breach party. Do you have that White’s shuttle on
your scopes? Nothing else? Deﬁnitely not Vox. Maybe Core
deeplabs. Sending visual. No suits. Perforated the hull

without tripping thermal sensors. That’s right. Vacuum with
no suits. Breach is somehow pressure sealed—a membrane.
I recommend you perform a hull integrity test. Might not be
isolated.” A beat. “Copy.” Fig shuts oﬀ her com. “You two.”
She points at me and Volga. “I’m not getting paid enough
for this. On me. You boys got the ball. She’s sending a
squad of Peerless.”
A low, horrible sound comes from the corpse of the
smaller intruder.
Fig turns. It isn’t dead after all. It is laughing. A deep
laugh, like the one you’d hear from a monster in the
deeptunnels of Lagalos. Like the laugh of a nightmare.
But the nightmare just deepens.
The creature pulls itself up, entrails hanging from its
open gut. It licks its lips, its eyes like that of a waiting
crocodile.
The Julii Sol Guards aren’t slagging with this.
“Medici can inspect the pieces,” the oﬀicer drones. “Put
them down.”
Then the lights go out.
“Null G’s!” Paxton shouts.
I feel it myself. A slow lightness as gravity disappears
and I drift upward. But there is no upward in the shower
block. I feel like I’m ﬂoating in an endless gulf, in a
darkness so deep even my cave-born eyes can’t see my
hands in front of my face.
A deep, manly voice bellows, “Nag ag ak, berserker!”
Light erupts from Sol Guard weapons, showing the
horror in stuttered frames.
The small intruder scuttles along the ﬂoor like a demon
crab as the soldiers ﬂoat upward.
Fig zips away from them as if by magic.

The six larger intruders lunge from the ground toward
the ﬂoating soldiers.
Bloody mouths.
Black eyes.
Huge metal weapons with runes painted upon them are
pulled from their bags. Guns puke ﬁre. I pinwheel aimlessly
in the drift as carnage swirls around me.
The Sol Guard captain ﬁres, the force sending him into a
backward spin across my path. A crooked spear tipped in
something shimmering whizzes past my ears through his
low back, out his belly, and into his forearm, hurling him
out of sight. I hear a metal thunk as he’s stapled to the
wall, screaming.
Spent cartridges ﬂoat past.
An arm.
Globules of blood.
Shards of tile.
Then a big intruder.
He cruises past me, naked and bleeding, carrying
horrible, jagged weapons. Both covered in gore. His
feverish eyes meet mine. There is a manic joy there. He is
at peace in the zero gravity, coasting toward his next
target. To strike me is to ruin the pattern of his hunt. But
his eyes say: soon.
Darkness. No guns ﬁre. There’s a wet hacking sound.
Then a screech.
A blaring gun illuminates the room as it ﬁres a stream of
energy at the wall. The metal glows molten. The man’s arm
is pinned by a spear to the ﬂoor or the ceiling or the wall, I
can’t tell. It’s Paxton, I realize just as the smallest intruder
embraces him like a child hugging its father.
“It’s eating me…” Paxton screams. “It’s eating…”

His voice gurgles away as the intruder gnaws into his
throat and it goes black again.
I gotta get out of here.
My heart hammers in my chest so hard I can barely
breathe. My mine-born eyes and my weeks in unreliable
gravity save me this time from rebounding poorly oﬀ the
wall. I push oﬀ with intent toward the hallway behind me,
away from the slaughter block. I drift on my course,
everything black, hearing only gnawing sounds, gurgles,
whimpering, and shearing metal.
I slam into the wall and scramble to hold on.
I can’t ﬁnd anything in the darkness. Then I grab at a
shape, encircle my hands around it, and feel a foot. Then
another leg encircles me, bringing me close.
“It’s me,” Volga says. Her voice is husky and even.
“Quiet. I need you to get me out of these cuﬀs. Tap my leg
if you understand.”
A man screams nearby.
I tap Volga’s leg.
“Climb up me.” I climb and with shaking hands listen to
Volga’s instructions. “There is a knife in my thigh.”
“Which pocket?”
“In my thigh.”
I search blindly for it and ﬁnd a cold hilt. I hesitate to
pull it out until Volga wrenches her leg away herself. Warm
blood spills over my ﬁngers as I slide the thick blade out.
Volga doesn’t make a sound. I feel the weapon’s edge. It
cuts my ﬁnger. Gods, it’s sharp. Following her instructions,
I manage to remove the ﬁnger cuﬀs one by one.
By the time I cut through the cable around her waist,
someone is laughing in the darkness. Blue light emanating
from her tattoos reveals Fig cornered on the wall opposite
the breach by ﬁve of the laughing intruders. Slaughtered
Sol Guards ﬂoat around them. The smallest intruder uses

the bodies to navigate the null G. Looks like Fig has killed
one of them. His body ﬂoats above her, missing its head.
If anything, the intruders look intrigued by her, and
eager to test Fig themselves. They line up one by one. The
little one gets to go ﬁrst. His knotted arms pick up two
axes. He sticks out a tongue implanted with a circle divider
and hisses through the hole in the center.
Fig just sneers.
“Night vision. Berserker psychoactives and pressuresealed skin. Someone had a fun time making you ugly
fucks.” Fig smiles. “How’s it work in vacuum if you got a
wound?”
Something blinks on the wall behind the monsters.
“Bihd am’drah zürk Fá!” the smallest says, lifting both
axes above his head and closing his eyes. The others echo
the call and lift their weapons.
Volga shoves me hard out of the shower block and into
the hall.
Something inhales. Then a ﬂash.
A force slams me into the opposite wall of the hall hard
enough for me to bloody my tongue and dent my skull. I
drift senseless, wailing in my ears.
Everything aches.
When I open my eyes, the hall is ﬁlled with broken tiles.
Volga blinks, dazed from a wound on her forehead. Spheres
of ﬁre writhe in the null gravity behind us in the shower
block. One of the intruders ﬂoats in the middle of the ﬁre,
wheeling its arms in vain to escape.
Then there’s a secondary explosion from Fig’s bomb and
the sound of warping metal.
The wall of the shower block caves outward. A window
opens to space.
Time stands still.

Colossal metal towers with glowing windows whip past.
Inside the windows, tiny forms stare out at us, so close we
can almost see the color of their eyes as the Pandora races
along the shoulder of Phobos. The city moon glows in the
darkness, and then she is gone.
Time resumes.
The shower block becomes a drain out into space.
The intruders are whipped out of sight.
We’re pushed down the hall by the decompressing ship.
I ricochet against the wall. My head slams into something
rigid. My ribs bend around metal, pushing the air from my
lungs. The whole world is spinning.
I grab for anything. Nails shearing oﬀ until I ﬁnd a
jagged lip of metal to grip my ﬁngers around at the inner
edge of the breach. My legs dangle down a funnel of bent
metal leading to empty space. Cold grips my bones. The
water on my tongue boils oﬀ.
I feel more than see something white drifting to my left. I
snatch at it and look back as my shoulder joint pops. Pain
stabs through the rotator cuﬀ. I’ve got a handful of Volga’s
hair in my hand. Is it my hand? It’s expanding. Volga stares
up at me, her eyes beginning to swell in her head. My grip
is all that’s keeping her and us from spinning into the void.
She uses me as a ladder to climb back into the ship. Hand
over hand.
Bitch is going to leave me. I consider letting go, but I’m
distracted by a glowing shape in the ruins of the shower
block.
Figment.
Somehow she survived the blast to crawl on the wall like
a salamander. Her ﬁngers secure her to the metal. I shout
at her, but nothing comes out. She glances over her
shoulder at us, and then continues along the ceiling into
the hallway to make her own escape. Eager to catch her,

Volga crawls more quickly. I lose my grip, and we lurch
toward space before she somehow stops herself and grabs
me by my hair this time.
My vision warps. Blood boils in my eyeballs. Intense
pressure pushes at everything. But I can see the outside of
the ship. The hull stretches for kilometers.
There’s more of them.
Shadows ﬂoat against the Pandora’s jade-green hull,
attached by cables, sawing their way in. They look like
insects from the distance. They have no ships, no metal
space suits. There’s hundreds. Maybe more. One by one
they disappear into the Pandora.
I’m going to die.
I don’t want to die.
I can’t leave Liam without anyone.
Has it been ten seconds or thirty? Pressure pushes my
urine out. Bile rushes up my esophagus and gushes out my
mouth. Something moves outside the hull, large panels of
metal moving like puzzle pieces to cover the breach. Volga
sees them and jerks on my arm, pulling me forward. The
ﬂow of pressure from the ship has stopped, it seems. And I
ﬂy back in through the hole just before the scale armor
seals the breach. Volga ﬂies in just behind me.
Thunkathunkathunka.
The breach seals.
Emergency lights bathe us red. There’s still no pressure,
still no oxygen. Darkness is melting the world away. Volga
gestures at one of the Sol Guards. The captain still impaled
on the wall—the only one not to get sucked out. She pushes
her way to him, and then goes limp before she reaches him.
She collides violently with the hull, unconscious.
I wait for her to wake up.
She’s not going to.

If we die, it’s on me.
If Liam is an orphan, it’s on me.
I kick oﬀ the wall for the corpse and feel the world
dimming.

***LyriaVolga pants like a bear in the null G. Oxygen ﬁnally ﬁlls

the room. There in the emergency lighting of the destroyed
locker room, she looks almost as monstrous as the
intruders did. Her pale calves are thicker than my thighs
and corded with muscle and thin white hair. They ﬂex as
she pushes herself up to the level of the impaled captain.
His limbs ﬂoat around him like a child making a dust angel.
Volga is not as gentle as in her letters as she scavenges
weapons from the dead.
I ﬂex my hands around the breath mask I hold. I don’t
remember how I kept us alive until the oxygen came back
in. Volga says she woke up with me pressing the oxygen
mask to her face. I must have taken it from one of the
corpses. It must be the lack of oxygen or the vacuum
slagging with my memory. Maybe that’s a side eﬀect.
Whatever happened, I did it. Me.
I feel numb from the killing I just saw. Body trembling
from adrenaline, from the boiling blood. I dry-heave,

sending me into a spinning motion that I only stop by
catching a locker.
My head is all a-jumble. My hands are not much better
oﬀ. Several ﬁngernails are missing at the root. The ﬁngers
of both hands are torn to the bone between the ﬁrst and
the second joints. My skin feels sunburnt.
“That was scary,” Volga says.
Words come out slowly. “Do you know what those—”
“They looked like…” Was she about to say Obsidian? She
blinks. “Whatever they are, they must have hit the AGG
ﬁrst.”
It takes me a moment. “AGG?”
“Sorry. Artiﬁcial gravity generator. Fig just left us,” she
says, breaking the ﬁngers of the dead captain to loosen his
grip on his riﬂe. How is she not fazed by this? “Did you
see?”
“I saw.”
“She’s such a bastard.”
“Personally, I’m a mite more worried about the
monsters.”
She looks at me over her shoulder. “If Ephraim taught me
one thing, it is not to stick your nose in other people’s
business. They are here for Julii. Not us.”
Finally managing to free the riﬂe, she does a series of
technical motions followed by the clicking of the weapon
and a whaaaamp sound as green lights ﬂicker on its screen.
She grins and pets it. She grimaces as she catches me
watching her. “Guns like me. But I do not like the Julii. She
has been cruel.” She looks at the walls. The blood boiled oﬀ
in the vacuum has left brownish stains. “Time to go.”
“No shit.”
“So?” She wipes the blood from her eyes. “Where to?”
“You’re the gangster, you tell me.”

“Gangster, gangster, gangster. I am a—”
“Freelancer. Yeah, whatever. I’m neither, so…”
She tilts her head at me and her entire body begins to
rotate. Stupid null G. “Yes. You would be a worthless judge
of this situation. Sorry.” She hesitates. “I will lead.” She
starts pushing her way toward the hall.
“Where are you going? Do you even have a plan?”
She catches herself on a bent locker. “This is not our war.
We must ﬁnd the hangar.”
“You can ﬂy?”
“Sometimes.”
She pushes oﬀ down the hall without me. I glance back
at the dead captain. His pistol is still in his holster. I take it
and follow Volga, not at all reassured.
The ship is quiet as we ﬂoat through the pulsing
corridors. Sirens wail as a calm voice instructs all Sol
Guards to meet at their rally points, and all support to
report to their safe rooms. An enemy is aboard. Code Black,
whatever that means.
More sounds of gunﬁre and close-quarters combat echo
down hallways the farther we go. Bodies of men in robotic
armor strew the ﬂoor. Few if any are burned. Most were
victims of spears and axes. The monsters didn’t seem to
bring a single gun aboard, but with the way they moved in
the zero G, I don’t think they need any.
I can’t shake the feeling more will appear from the
shadows.
Or from around the corner.
My heart won’t stop throbbing.
“Where are we going?” I ask Volga as we ﬂoat in the
center of an intersection. I feel as though someone is
watching us. The bodies of murdered Yellow civilians ﬂoat
far behind us. She squints at the air, incredibly calm.

“Can you see blood?” she whispers. “I lost Fig’s trail. My
eyes are not good in low light. Sorry.”
Have we been following her trail the whole time? I
thought we were just going at random. Volga might look
stupid, but she’s done this before. Well, maybe not ﬁght
monsters from space, but the other stuﬀ. Seeing how
comfortable she looks with the riﬂe in her hands, I
remember what she did to Kavax. How many people has
she killed?
“Why are we following Fig?” I ask.
“She knows her way better. She’ll be going for a ship
too.”
“Not to kill her…”
She looks over at my pistol. “Do you want to kill her?”
“Yeah,” I say, surprised at how natural it feels. “Yeah, I
wouldn’t mind.”
Volga glances at me before going back to her search, her
face unreadable.
I squint and search lower than Volga. Sure enough, I ﬁnd
blood droplets ﬂoating just over the ﬂoor, seeming to head
oﬀ to the right. We set oﬀ in pursuit.
The ship grows eerily quiet except for the blaring alarms.
It worries me how silent our movement is without gravity.
Anything could be waiting for us around any corner.
A mechanical roar greets us at the next intersection. We
scramble to reverse as a big Gold in gravBoots and a
nightgown tears down the hall toward us with a bloody
razor.
He locks eyes with Volga as he passes.
His voice trails down the hall. “Run…”
We look at what lies in his wake. The hallway stretches
like a pulsing red throat, bending a hundred meters down.
Shadows move.

“Oh shit…” I mutter, and push oﬀ the wall after the Gold
faster than Volga. I’m numb. Vision constricted. Don’t even
know if I should follow. But Volga is right behind me. And
that gives me some comfort. Still, we’re not going fast
enough, but we can’t look back without throwing our
forward motion oﬀ. Volga shouts for me to grab her. My
instinct is to trust her. I snag her leg and she ﬁres behind
us with the pulseRiﬂe. We accelerate with its recoil just as
the hall stutters black again. A mournful horn echoes down
the hall like a whale song.
“Catch ’em!” someone shouts.
Two armored men in gravBoots zip forward to collect us.
They bring us to a cluster of heavily armored Sol Guards
led by two Golds. They form a defensive circle around the
hall where it meets a gravLift station fed by multiple levels.
Blue light from the lift illuminates the soldiers. There’re
more than thirty, not all armored, about a dozen sailors
amongst them. Some look like they’ve just woken up.
Though they know who we are, they make no eﬀort to take
our weapons.
Not reassuring.
The leader, a huge Gold man, hangs upside down looking
at a Gray’s datapad. “Thermal is bunk. Go motion.” A
heartbeat comes from the device as white waves ripple
over the image in a circle. He moves a wand about.
“They’ve stopped.”
“What’s—” I begin.
“Silence,” the Gold snaps. Aside from his nightgown, he
wears only gravBoots. His eyes ﬂick to Volga. “Might need
your help, Obsidian. I hear you know how to use that.” He
looks at her riﬂe. She nods and he motions everyone to be
quiet. “I hear them down the hall. Lucia…secure our ﬂank
in case they come from the vents. If they reach the central
gravLift, they can spread through the ship. We hold them

here.” Lucia watches him evenly, speaking in a private,
silent language I don’t understand. “Backup is imminent.”
Lucia nods and departs.
I try to get the Gold’s attention again. “Sir—”
“Shut up, girl,” he snaps. “Germanicus, I need you to
take the hostages to Madam Julii in the—”
“Listen to me!” I shout. The Gold wheels, dark with
anger. “They’re already in the rest of the bloodydamn ship,”
I say.
His eyelids ﬂutter. He knows what I mean.
“How do you know this?” he whispers.
“I saw them from outside. There were hundreds all over
the ship.”
“It is true,” Volga says. “She was far enough out.”
“Tongue,” the Gold commands. I stick mine out. “Boil
burns,” he says, and goes still. He knows I’ve been in
vacuum.
“Expect hostiles,” he tells the group.
Ping…
The motion sensor displays a single dot traveling down
the hall toward us. A Gray shoots a ﬂare. The red light
illuminates a single warrior. He swims down the hall like a
shark, using what looks like a grapple gun to build velocity.
“Germanicus, at one hundred meters, bring him down.”
But the alien warrior stops. He swims back and forth
between the walls. “Naka, rheket zü Fá!” he bellows. A
stunted metal crown seems to be fused to his naked head.
“Naké, rheket zï Uud.”
A low groan rolls down the throat of the hall from his
fellows.
“Fáaaaaaaaaa.”
Ping…Ping…Ping. Pingpingpingpingpingping.

Dots swarm the motion sensor, coming from all
directions. “The ducts!” a wolfguard grunts. They shift
their defensive position.
“They’re too big,” the Gold corrects. “They’d never ﬁt.”
“They have small ones,” Volga says.
Even in panic, the Gold is impressive. He wheels, face
absolutely still. “How small?”
Volga puts a ﬂat hand above my head, and lowers it to my
clavicles.
The Gold’s lips tighten and he draws his razor and
pushes toward the ducts. Then blue light bathes us as the
gravLift doors open from behind. No lift presents itself
from inside the shaft. Only a single warrior ﬂoating in the
blue dark.
He is the biggest human I’ve ever seen.
A long white tail of hair writhes like a pale snake over his
head in the null G. His armor looks too heavy for any man
to use in gravity, even him. It is weightless now—thick,
rough, and jagged, festooned all over with spikes that are
almost as long as those that make the crown atop his skull
helmet.
“He’s real,” Volga whispers, gripped with awe. The dark
fairy tale of her letters appears. “Volsung Fá.”
His voice is a deep vibration. He’s looking right at me.
No. Through me to Volga.
“Volga. I oﬀer you these Stains.”
He springs through the gunﬁre into the Gold leader. He
bats aside the Gold’s razor with a long spear. Then they
collide. Four of the spikes of his helmet pop through the
Gold’s head like needles skewering a strawberry. Two from
his shoulder punch out the man’s lower back. He slashes at
the Gold’s neck with a crescent ﬁst-blade, half severing the
strong bone of the Gold’s spine. Using the man’s body as a
shield, he pushes oﬀ the ﬂoor to ﬁnd his next prey, his

helmet spikes crowned now with the decapitated head of
the Gold.
The giant kills everyone.
Some with his spear, some with his ﬁst-blade, others with
the spikes of his armor. And those he kills or wounds on his
armor, he carries with him like a screaming crab shell
made of the dying.
Volga ﬁres her pulseRiﬂe in quick bursts. The pulseblasts
that ﬁnd him sizzle on the armor, and send him ricocheting
to kill more. The gun isn’t powerful enough. The monsters
swim now down the main hall coming not to help the spiked
man, but to watch him kill and drone that horrible sound.
Volga shoots three in the head with blinding speed, but
more are coming.
“Fáaaaaa.”
Volga and I run as soon as the second Gold is killed. Fá
tries to come after us, but his own slaughtered victims
weigh his spiked armor down as gravity returns to the ship
with a downward jerk. Julii’s men restored it.
Not just Martian standard, but something far surpassing
Earth’s gravity.
Clever.
It’s agonizing to run. I feel leaden. Volga stumbles with
me, tearing through the maintenance corridors, until we
reach a manual transit chute that runs between decks.
Volga grabs me before I slide down it. Her eyes survey
the level-map beside the entrance. We’ve lost Fig’s trail.
We’ll have to ﬁnd our own way. Gods, she’s cool as ice.
“Those are Ascomanni,” she says as she studies the map.
“Ascomanni are just pirates.”
“These are real Ascomanni. Far Ink,” she says. “What
else could they be?”
“Could we talk about this later?”

She nods and jams a ﬁnger on the map. “Pilot ready
room. Ten down.”
I go ﬁrst down the chute. Gunﬁre and explosions echo as
we descend between levels. Or ascend. I’m not sure which
way’s up in space. Is there even an up? The more I think
about it, the more disoriented I get. The Pandora is a
ﬂoating city. With districts, maybe a dozen ﬁre
departments. How many others will be rushing to the
hangars?
There’s no time to think about it.
We blur past little worlds of slaughter. Julii soldiers
kneeling and ﬁring out of a communications room. A
scalped Silver sitting very still at a doorway holding his
intestines as shadows make grunting sounds inside. Two
Golds in business apparel being hacked to death by bloodcovered maniacs. The maniacs won’t stop laughing. They’re
massacring a ship, and they act like they’re at a fucking
party.
I pinch my legs on the ladder to slow above the ready
room. I come to an easy stop. Volga bowls into me from
above, kicking my face and sending me sprawling. “Sorry.
Weird gravity.”
The ready room is quiet. Lockers opened, gear missing.
Pilots must have been fast to the hangars. “How did he
know you?” I snap at Volga as she peers back up the chute,
wondering if we were followed.
“I don’t know,” she says, looking back with wide eyes.
Not so calm now, eh? Her monster knew her.
“How the bloodyhell did he know your name? Why does
he want you?”
She shakes her head, at a loss. I leave her, whatever
she’s hiding will have to wait. I’m not going to die like
those soldiers. I head to the pilot chute to take it down to
the hangars. Volga stops me.

Her eyebrows crawl upward. “What?” I ask.
“I dropped…something.” She acts with incredible
conviction as if she’s searching the ground for something.
Her path takes her to a metal EVA suit locker. Volga steps
back and then lunges forward to kick it. The metal
crumples inward. I hear a grunt and a familiar gunshot.
The top of the locker divides. Light bends in the room. A
half meter of bulkhead parts like butter pushed apart by
two ﬁngers.
Volga kicks the door until it falls oﬀ its hinges and
crumples into the person hiding inside. Volga shoves her
hand in and wrenches out a translucent ghost. The
translucence ripples over Volga’s arm until the arm itself
disappears. Volga grabs something with her other arm and
the ghost materializes, revealing Fig dangling from her
throat at the end of Volga’s outstretched arm.
“Figment!” Volga growls. “We meet again!”
“Ogre. Broke…my…ribs…” Fig tries to bring her gun up,
but Volga grabs it and tears it from her hands, almost
taking her ﬁngers with it. It drops to the ﬂoor. I reach for it.
“Don’t! Coded for her.” I pull my hand back, and use a
towel from the broken locker to wrap it up.
“You left us to die!” Volga slams Fig against the wall hard
enough to dent it. “You shot at Ephraim at the Adonis
Casino!” She slams her again. “You stole the Crown of
Cortada! You stuck a needle in my chest!”
“And mine,” I add.
“And Lyria too!” Volga slams her the hardest for that one.
“I’ll pop you like a zit. Justice for both of us.”
Fig clenches her jaw. Something pops. She spits it at
Volga. Volga twitches to the side. A stream of green spit
slashes across the ﬂoor and melts through it. Volga laughs.
“I know your tricks, Fig! No calibrated acid this time.”

Apparently, she doesn’t know all of Fig’s tricks. The
white lines on Fig’s skin throb. Volga starts to convulse.
Her hair stands on end. Miraculously, she holds on. Then
Fig presses down on her middle ﬁnger’s nail with her
thumb and a long needle jumps out from her middle
knuckle. I press my own pistol straight against Fig’s head
just before she plunges the needle into Volga’s shoulder.
Maybe it’s the soldier gore on my face. Maybe it’s my
race’s habit for bad tempers. Maybe it’s the muzzle digging
into her skull, but Figment freezes. “Soft head, hard bullet.
Bad combination, bitch.” I twist the muzzle. “Drop it.”
“I…can’t,” is all she manages with Volga squeezing her
neck. Her face purples. “Fused…onto…metacarpal.”
“Drop the hand then, ya dumb slant. And stop…whatever
you’re doing to Volga.”
Fig’s hand drops to her side, and whatever her skin was
doing stops. Volga whimpers a little in pain, then snaps the
needle oﬀ with a grunt.
“What was that?” she asks, relaxing her hand on Fig’s
throat.
“Nerve agent.”
“With the skin.”
“NEDS.”
Volga’s eyes narrow. “What is this NEDS?”
“Nanotech emergency defense system.”
“Really?” Volga’s eyebrows do a little dance. “Slick.”
“I know, right? I had it installed in—”
“Quiet.” Volga squeezes her throat tight as the public
address system crackles to life.
Lady Barca’s voice comes over the coms.
“All factors and clients of House Julii-Barca, this is your
patronus, we have been boarded by an unidentiﬁed enemy
force of unknown strength. While they share traits with

Obsidians, their skin appears to be polyextremophilic:
resistant to vacuum, radiation, low-velocity rounds, and
thermal imaging. They are also under heavy psychotropic
inﬂuence. Pain does not register, but headshots do. They
have penetrated the core lifts. We have zero containment.
They are climatized to null G, so I have retaken the gravity
generator personally. We cannot hold it, but the gravity will
give you a chance.”
She takes a deep breath.
“The enemy appears to have limited working knowledge
of our systems. Thus, I am ordering total evacuation of the
Pandora, to be followed by a purge protocol. In ten minutes
achlys-9 nerve agent will be dispersed. You have until then
to get to your pods. Victra out.”
The Pandora is a legend. The Julii twice as famous. She
doesn’t just abandon her family ﬂagship.
It feels like the world is upside down.
Volga looks bewildered. “What do we do?”
“Still looking for orders,” Fig says with a laugh. “Poor
puppy needs a—ack.” Volga squeezes her throat.
“Should we ﬁnd the pods?” she asks me.
“You gonna kill her or not?” I ask.
“To be determined.”
“Well, if you’re not, I reckon she’s our best chance of
getting out of here. Maybe put her down?”
“Why not. I will kill her if she is shifty.” Volga releases
Fig. The small woman falls to the ﬂoor hacking for air.
“Without her pistol. It is much easier.”
“I can help you…” Fig says, massaging her throat.
“Can you ﬂy a ship?” I ask.
“Of course I can ﬂy a ship.” I raise an eyebrow at Volga.
“But you do not want to go to the hangars,” Fig says. “I just
came from there. It’s a slaughterhouse. Trust me.”

Volga and I both laugh.
“You two are part of my contract. I don’t get paid my
second half till I hand you over to Seﬁ.” Her eyes ﬂick to
Volga. “What did the monkey mean when she said one of
them knew your name?”
Volga shakes her head.
“You don’t know? Of course you don’t know. I fucking
hate Mars,” Fig mutters. “All the weird shit happens here.
Makes no sense.” She makes that same distant expression
she made in my cell, almost like taking a step out of the
physical world. When she reverts, she says one word.
“Xenophon.”
“What’s a Xenophon?” I ask.
She ignores me to wipe blood from the needle hole in her
hand.
“Where are the escape pods?” Volga asks.
“You want to die? The pods will become murder pens.”
Fig sighs, irritated she has to explain to us idiots. “The
small ones are moving through the maintenance tunnels
like they built them. Big ones prefer the halls. They’re not
driving to objectives. They’re hunting. What do you want to
bet they know where the prey will go? It’ll be a massacre.”
“Then you have a backup plan,” Volga says.
“Doll, I’m a freelancer. I always got a backup plan.
There’s an emergency escape craft beneath the bridge
level. Which is not in the schematics. If our luck holds, the
freaks won’t know it’s there. I’m headed there myself, after
a little detour.” She grins at us. “So, ladies. Whaddya say?”

***LyriaThe Pandora is a of corridor ﬁghting. A mass exodus

ﬂows through the ship. It isn’t just Julii’s soldiers on the
Pandora. It is her entire household from Luna, which she
was moving back to Mars. A miniature civilization of cooks,
academics, researchers, accountants, and horse trainers
ﬂoods to the escape-pod levels. I watch in wonder as a
dozen of the beasts are herded through the corridors by old
Obsidian women.
Fig’s detour took us to her stateroom, where she grabbed
a backpack and a more peculiar item, a glossy black globe
that contorts over the back of her neck to attach somewhat
like a tick or a parasite. I’ve no idea what it is, but it makes
her look like a hunchback. Volga stares at it in awe.
Obviously she’s given up the pretense of Fig being our
captive if she let her have that.
“Can I have my pistol back now?” Fig asks as we ﬂoat
upward toward the bridge through a maintenance corridor.
“No,” Volga says. “It is ours, for damages.”

“Takers keepers,” Fig says, giving the pistol a longing
glance.
—
The closer we get to the bridge, the more sounds we hear.
Twice, Fig saves us from running straight into one of the
roving Ascomanni or whatever they are. We wait in the
shadows of an armory amongst dead Grays as a pack
passes.
When we hear them call to each other in joy, we know
they’ve found their next victim. Fig motions us into the hall.
It is empty. The gravity reverses as we run, growing lighter
and lighter until we reach a security door marked with
radioactive symbols. Fig reaches for something on her belt
and pulls out a thin plastic container. Inside is a small
gelatin disk. She inserts it into her eye. It expands and
turns her irises Gold. A scanner appears in the door. Blue
light ﬂickers over her eye. The door opens.
“Retinal forger,” Volga mutters. “This is Julii’s personal
escape craft?”
“Does it matter whose it is? Woman’s gonna pop with a
baby yesterday and she’s oﬀ ﬁghting. The maniac.”
Volga takes hold of her collar and pushes her through the
opening door. It dead-ends in a maintenance closet ﬁlled
with cleaning robots.
“Welcome, Madam Barca,” a nasty, manly voice says as
Sevro au Barca’s face appears in a hologram. A reinforced
door shields above us. Weapons appear on the walls.
Expensive weapons. The Julii’s personal stash. Volga looks
like she’s gonna faint from joy. “I don’t want an escape
craft, she says. Ha! I told you you’d need one. Now scurry
home and we’ll hunt whomever you pissed oﬀ together.” He
waves and disappears. The panel on the far side of the

room slides back to reveal a dark tube. I shove Volga to
make her stop drooling after the guns.
“No, no, no,” Volga says as Fig heads to the tube. “I go
ﬁrst.”
“What if the ship is already gone? And this leads out into
space?” I say. “Let her go ﬁrst.”
“Or she could get in and shut us out,” Volga says,
thinking.
“Slag it.” I dive into the tube.
Its gravity seizes me immediately, hurling me up the
chute. It twirls a dozen times. My breath seizes in my
chest. Metal whips past. My head grows heavy. Then
gravity slows. My stomach whirls at the new sensations.
The chute’s circular door opens and I fall into a plush
leather chair, safe and sound. That was one hell of a slide.
I give a little whoop.
I ﬁnd myself in a lounge, and it is already occupied. More
than a dozen heavily armed Sol Guards and several
bloodied Golds carrying heavy riﬂes turn to stare at me.
And sitting directly across from me in a leather chair, in
green metal armor with a weeping sun on the swollen
abdomen, is Victra au Barca.
She tilts her beautiful head at me in amusement and then
punches me in the face.
—
Reality returns in stuttering frames.
Not again. Not again.
The cabin is spinning. My stomach lurches. Sunlight
rushes through a hole in the hull. Victra stands there
holding on to the wall, ﬁring out of the ship with a huge
gun. Something punches two hundred miniature holes in
the hull. People around me disappear in a red mist. Two

tubes shoot out of my chair and jam into my nostrils. Volga
wails somewhere behind me. Wind and light. A great huge
roar. Victra is gone. Whipped out the hole in the hull. Trees
through the windows. Then a hiss as my chair swallows me
up in a cocoon of darkness.
THUUUUUUUMM.
We hit the ground. Rolling. Rolling. Rolling. A metal
spear pierces through the dark cocoon. It stops an eyelash
away from puncturing my eyeball.
Silence.
Oxygen comes through the tubes into my nose.
“Volga!” I murmur. “Volga…”
My arms are pinned to my body by the cocoon. My legs
won’t budge. I feel some sort of knob by my right hand. I
jiggle it to see what it does. A great farting sound releases
the liquid from the crash pod and the darkness around me
sags. Light pours in and I forget to breathe.
I’m dangling over the edge of a Martian fjord.
The front of the ship is completely gone. In the day’s last
light, shards of it glint in the water hundreds of meters
beneath. The rest of the ship is suspended above me at a
straight vertical. It sways with the wind. Bits of body parts
and ﬁne china sprinkle down.
Bloodydamn.
The cocoon that saved me was some sort of black gel
insulation from the chair itself. The outside of the cocoon
looks like a pincushion. It is studded with three shards of
metal the size of my legs. One missed piercing my heart by
only a centimeter of insulation. A crash harness secures me
to the seat, and keeps me from falling into the fjord. I can’t
imagine Julii putting it on me.
I reach over the crashpod and grip the armrest before
unbuckling the harness. I lurch downward, but manage to
pull myself up over the seat. The ship sighs on its rocky

perch. The movement upsets a half-pulverized corpse and it
slides from the back of the ship toward me. I duck. It clips
my shoulder and nearly takes me down with it.
I wince from the pain in my mangled hands and move as
carefully as I can. Remains of what were once humans litter
the compartment. “Volga? Volga!”
I feel like I’m looking for my sister amongst the corpses
again. Looking for those blue shoes. Most of the crashpods
are eviscerated by metal. Strangers ﬁll them. I’m relieved
to not ﬁnd Victra’s other daughters here. Were they on the
Pandora? Is their mother now just a wreck of bones on the
ground?
I’ve no love for the Julii, but I grow nauseous all the
same.
I ﬂinch as another crashpod deﬂates with a hiss. Rigid
gel becomes elastic, like a stick of black butter melting,
and my friend’s face emerges from it. Her eyes wide and
terriﬁed as she sees the fjord beneath. She jerks sideways,
causing the ship to rock.
“Volga, don’t move.”
We both freeze until the ship grows still again. Carefully,
I pull my way over to her and help her with the crash
harness. It takes us nearly ﬁve minutes to climb up out of
the cabin toward the hole in the end of the ship. Once we
reach daylight, we’re able to slide down the broken wing to
the rocky ground below. Volga falls to her knees and kisses
the frosted earth.
“No more ships,” she stammers. “No more ships.”
“Agreed,” I mutter.
The top of the fjord is littered with ship parts, and not
just ours. The remains of several ripWings burn amongst
coarse grass and frozen ponds. A ﬁghter’s cockpit has part
of an armored man hanging out. How did he get there? On
a hill at the edge of a forest, another section of our ship

smolders. Huge clouds consume most of the twilight sky.
There’s ﬂashes in orbit that I see between their gaps.
“Where are we?” Volga asks.
The sun sets behind mountains to the west. An expanse
of fjords stretches to the east and north out to sea. “I don’t
know,” I say. “Maybe the Daedalus Mountains. Or…” I
search the mountains to the west and see the triple peaks
of the Hydra’s Neck. I laugh in dismay. “We’re in the
Cimmerian Highlands. Far north. These must be the
Pyrrian Fjords.” I look south. A forest stretches across a
misty land riddled with more fjords and jagged mounds of
rock. Thousands of kilometers from here, the highlands
taper away into endless plains and jungle belts.
“Cimmeria! You are home,” Volga says.
Home?
I shiver as frigid wind sweeps down from the north and
cuts through my thin jacket easy as a knife. It is my planet.
Yet I’ve never even seen snow before. And not a single
person I love breathes its air—they are scattered across the
system or buried beneath its dirt. It is a lonely feeling.
Mars does not feel like home.
“You need something to wear,” Volga says, taking a step
toward our ship. Her foot dislodges a rock, which rolls and
clicks against another, which rolls against the ship’s hull.
There’s a sigh of metal and the ship tilts forward, losing its
battle against gravity. With a groan, it slips over the edge of
the fjord. Volga and I watch it crash into the water far
below.
“Scary,” she mutters, and points toward the hillside
where the back third of the ship lies in ruins. “We will go
over there. There may be supplies and people who need
help.”
I follow, but only because I don’t have a better idea.

By the time we make it to the second crash site, night
has come in full, and my Julii-given shoes slosh with
freezing water.
I can see better in the gloom than Volga, so I lead. The
inside of the ship is a slaughterhouse. Dozens of crashpods
were skewered with hunks of bent metal. Blood leaks from
them to form a soup on the ﬂoor that thickens as it cools.
There’s about squat-all chance anyone lived through this.
Still, seems the human thing to look for survivors.
I check the back as Volga checks the front of the ship.
Each pod I open reveals a new scene to ﬁll my nightmares.
By the sixth corpse, I’m right numb, and starting to wonder
how the hell civilization plods on with all this going on
behind the scenes.
Is this what war is? It’s so bloody…jarring. I always
thought by watching the holos and the parades that it was
more sophisticated, organized. But it’s just so…blunt,
clumsy even. Is this what my brothers see every day? Even
if they come back, is this what’s behind their eyes?
I keep looking despite the dread and ﬁnd a treasure trove
of emergency supplies: medkits, thermals, water packs,
survival boxes with a thermal stove, and protein cubes. I
stack these outside the ship after giving up on ﬁnding
anyone alive.
Then, toward the back of the wreckage, something
moves.
At ﬁrst I think it’s a rat. Then I see ﬁngers and realize
they belong to someone in a half-deﬂated crashpod. I pull it
open. The woman’s face is pale. She is unwounded—except
for the shard of metal that has nearly sliced her body in
two. “Fig.” Her eyes ﬂutter open. The tracework of her
white tattoos is queerly bright in the darkness. She doesn’t
recognize me. “Fig,” I say quietly. I touch her hand. It’s
cold. “Oy, freelancer.”

“Psappha?” she says. “Thought I’d…have more time. It’s
not fair. I had more…to do.”
“Fig, can you hear me?” Might hate her, but hard to hold
on to hate for someone who’s in two pieces. “Fig, it’s Lyria.
The Red.”
“The Red.” Her eyes come into focus. “Oh,” she says in
disappointment. “You? ’Course I don’t get a better heir.”
She snorts. “It should have been someone with some skill.
A freelancer.” Her eyes close. “Get the Obsidian.” Blood
bubbles on her lips. “Get the…crow.” Frowning, I call for
Volga. She doesn’t answer. “I feel it unsyncing. Moisture
wicking oﬀ the tendril root. Just like she said.”
She’s babbling. Seen it before when people go.
“Figment said,” she says, talking in third person now.
“Where is the bloody crow? She can use it. With that blue
blood, she’ll carve an empire.”
“Just hang on. Help’s coming.”
“Idiot. I escaped. Was gonna be the greatest freelancer
who ever lived. Still had that bitch Bonerider to…”
Her mouth contorts. Eyes go all crazy. She screams into
my face. I rear back, but her hands dig into my wrists with
insane strength. She makes a hacking, vomiting sound, like
an old engine dying. Her eyes strain from her head. Her
body starts to seize and her mouth froths. A lump moves
along her face, like a snail trapped beneath the surface. It
goes from the top of her nose, swells a nostril, and then it
bursts forth.
It looks like a tiny metal squid with hundreds of hairlike
arms tipped with little ﬁbers. I scream as it springs at my
face. But her hands won’t. Let. Go. I thrash as the squid
thing crawls over my eyes. Intense pressure in my nostril.
It’s cramming its way into my nasal passage. I struggle to
breathe. Then there’s pain unlike anything I’ve ever felt. A
hundred needles between my brain and my nostril. A

cascade of ﬁre on every nerve ending. Raw pain down my
spine. Spasms of light explode. Fig becomes a pulsing red
thermal monster. Then she goes shock white. I see her
bones. Her organs. Her blood moving through the network
of vessels like the map of Hyperion’s tram lines. Even the
food in her belly. A pulse thunders in my brain. Still Fig has
not let me go. The pain comes again like a huge tidal wave,
and then it rolls back, leaving my brain leeched of sense.
When it subsides I shake in stupid horror.
Fig’s eyes roll back into her head. A voice comes from
her mouth that belongs to no human.

“O my mountain hyacinth,

what shepherds trod upon you
with clumsy, rustic foot?
Now you are a broken seal:
a scarlet stain upon the earth.

Figmentum es

Figmentum es Figmentum es
FIGMENTUM ES FIGMENTUM ES FIGMENTUM
ES”
Accolades, sister. You have killed Figment. You are
Figment. Do not report for duty, a soft female voice says
within my head. My wrath be thine.
Then it is quiet and Fig is dead.

***LyriaVolga crouches over a man in the gloom, pumping at his

chest. She gives up, sits back on her heels, and looks at me
in weariness. “Lyria, what is it?”
“I…I don’t know.” I shake my head, unable to ﬁnd the
words. Did it really happen? I’d think myself mad if my
nostril wasn’t all cut up and bloody. Is the squid thing in my
brain? What does it mean that I’m the Figment? What duty
am I not to report for? How do I explain that a little
monster just exploded out of Fig into my nostril? It’s inside
me. Whatever it is. It spoke to me. It’s silent now. There’s
no pain. Just the sound of the wind and the creaking of
metal and huge trees all around us. The world itself feels
evil.
“Fig’s dead,” I ﬁnally say.
“Impossible.”
I take her to Fig. Volga hunches over her body, feeling for
the woman’s pulse. She puts her ear to her heart. Flicks
her nose. Pulls up her eyelids. Slaps her. “She is dead.”

“Yeah, good thing you checked.”
“Nothing is obvious with Fig.” Before I can say anything,
Volga takes a knife she must have found in the wreckage
and sticks it into Fig’s eye.
“What are you doing? Stop that.” I say, shoving at her.
Volga looks oﬀended.
“Quicksilver put a huge bounty on Fig,” she says, going
back to her grisly work. “She stole something from him.
But the contract is Amani. It requires ocular proof.” She
digs out the eyeball and sets to work on the other. “Have
you seen the orb she had or the bag?” I shake my head.
“Her pistol?”
I don’t reply.
Sickened, I leave the ship and stand outside, touching
the small gash Fig’s metal squid thing opened under my
nostril when it went into my nose. Quicksilver was hunting
Fig. Why? Is it in the bag, the case? Or inside me? Would
Volga cut it out of me if she knew I had it? Does she even
know it exists?
A dangerous customer. That’s what Fig called Volga. She
wasn’t lying. Just because Volga helped me escape doesn’t
mean she’s a friend. All those letters were just a way for
her to pass the time. She’s a right savage when there’s
money lying on the ground, or in someone’s eye sockets.
Volga soon joins me with Fig’s bag over her shoulder,
carrying Fig’s black orb. “It is just business,” she says, not
understanding my mood. “She was already dead.”
I don’t say anything as she tries to open the case. Finding
the eﬀort futile, she ﬁnds a pistol on one of the bodies and
shoots the orb. The metal is left without a scratch. Volga
frowns. But an unusual ringing ﬁlls the air, morphing over
time until it seems the orb whispers to me.
“What’s in there?” I ask.

“I do not know. Maybe what she stole. It might be very
valuable.”
Dozens are dead around us, and she’s after something
valuable. I have to get away from her. I have to get away
from this crash, from these people. I have to get back to
Liam.
There’s a high-pitched humming sound in my head that I
can’t shake. Not the whispering of the orb. Something else.
At ﬁrst I thought it was hearing damage. I dig a ﬁnger in
my ear to clear it. If anything, the humming grows louder.
It’s not coming from my head. It’s coming from the forest.
“You hear that?” I ask. Volga shakes her head. “You’re
supposed to have predator ears. You don’t hear that at all?”
She pries at the case with her knife. “Maybe you hit your
head?”
I wander toward the treeline. The sound is coming from
the forest. Volga calls after me, and jogs to keep up as I
start to follow it.
The humming grows louder the deeper I go, and I can
see a faint rippling in the air. Sort of like hot air above a
stove. There’s broken branches now. Trees shattered high
above our heads. A ripWing must have crashed here.
Entering a shadowy thicket, where the trees have exploded
from impact, I ﬁnd a fallen tree trunk with a pair of green
metal feet sticking out from under it. The humming is so
loud I have to plug my ears.
“Fig?” a woman calls. The humming dies. “Took you long
enough. Been calling for half a gory hour.”
On the other side of the tree, Victra lies on her back
pushing at the tree trunk with both hands. It’s trapped both
her legs under it. Had it fallen just a quarter meter higher,
it would have crushed the baby in her belly.
The trapped Gold glares up at us from under a mess of
short golden hair. Her eyes ﬂash with anger. I jump back in

fright so hard I smash into Volga and fall to the ground.
When I scramble up, Victra is laughing.
“Just my gory luck. Sevro’s right. Cockroaches will
inherit the worlds.”
“Julii!” Volga exclaims.
“It’s Barca! Gods, can no one get it right? It makes him
so sensitive. Where’s Fig? Where are my men?”
I grab a tree branch from the ground as if I’m going to
hit her on the head with it. Then I see Victra’s pulseFist a
ways oﬀ in the snow. I rush to it and insert my hand into
the huge metal glove. Vwoooooon. It powers on and I point
it at her head. The energy it holds shakes my arm. Gods, its
heavy.
“Go on, little girl. Vox, Syndicate, Atalantia, those freaks.
Everyone wants a piece of me. Take a bite. See if you don’t
choke.”
“Lyria, don’t,” Volga says, stepping in my path. “You can’t
shoot her.”
“Move.”
“This is not you.”
“How the hell would you know? Because of a few
letters?”
“Lyria, I know. You do not want to shoot her.”
My arm is aching from holding the heavy pulseFist. “She
tortured you and me, put us in a dungeon, right? Let’s
make sure—”
Victra laughs from the ground. “Dungeon? You mean
Electra’s playroom?” We’re just under one millimeter tall to
her. “I gave those rooms to Electra when she turned four.
She said our sophists were boring, and my mother did it to
me, and look how I turned out.” She makes a small face.
“Though there was Antonia, wasn’t there? But we sorted
that.” Her smile is one part satisfaction, another part pride.
“Electra solved the puzzle in thirteen days. Slower than me,

of course, but far faster than her father, and, a little secret
between us girls, part of me thinks she liked that a bit. The
little harpy. Anyway, if I were really torturing you, you’d go
mad. Just ask my husband.”
A playroom? Now Fig’s display makes sense. I feel about
one millimeter tall.
“You saw what it did to us…” Volga says.
“Yes, well, a little friction never hurt anyone’s character.
Seemed to do you wonders. If you were this bloodthirsty
last year, your family might still be—”
A surge of anger goes through me and I ﬁre the pulseFist
at the ground near Victra’s head. I’m thrown backward by
the recoil and almost drop the weapon. Victra didn’t even
ﬂinch. She yawns as steam from the melted snow clouds
around her. “Gods, you Reds are dramatic.”
Volga takes the weapon from me.
“She is pregnant! I will not be evil.”
“Evil?” I snap. “You just plucked out Fig’s eyeballs.”
“She was already dead. She did not need them.”
“Figment’s dead?” Victra says. “Shit. Well, there’s thirty
million credits wasted. I’ll miss her sparkling personality.”
A thought comes to her. “Who was with her when she
died?” Volga nods to me. Victra’s eyes ﬁxate.
Does she know about the parasite?
“Thanks,” I say to Volga.
“You were, though.”
“Why would you tell her anything?”
“Not to be rude, but would you two mind bickering some
other time and help me get this colossal tree oﬀ of my legs?
My men will be homing on our signal, but it’s hardly
digniﬁed to be found lying on my back like a beached
whale. I’ll never hear the end of it.”
“We’re not helping you,” I say.

Volga looks like she wants to. “Where are your other
daughters?” she asks.
“Safe.”
“You’re not helping her,” I say.
Volga turns on me, a low growl in her voice. “You do not
control me. I will do what I think is right.”
“And you’re going to help this bitch? What happened to it
not being our battle?”
Volga says nothing.
“Darling, don’t be such a mule. I understand you are so
oppressed,” Victra says. “But let’s not be sanctimonious.
You stole my daughter. Both of you. And I was decent
enough to arrange a transfer to that Gray friend of yours
when he didn’t even stipulate you needed to be in one
piece. By any measure, I’m positively benevolent. You were
both on your way to being Obsidian pets until those…things
took my ship.”
“Ascomanni,” Volga corrects.
“Maybe,” Victra says.
“It was them,” Volga insists. Victra’s eyes suggest she
agrees. “They knew my name.” Victra frowns, not
completely surprised. What does she know?
“My point is, the least you could do is help me preserve
some vestige of reputation by getting this gorydamn tree
oﬀ my gorydamn legs,” she says. “If you want money for it,
that’s no problem. What’s your price?”
“Money can’t solve everything,” I tell her.
“Wrong, but whatever.”
I bend down close as I dare to her. “It won’t help you
here. Try some dignity. In the end it’s all you have.”
Her smile for me is cold. “I do love circularity. But when
my men get here maybe we just leave you.”

“I don’t need your help, and I don’t need Ephraim to
trade for me,” I tell her, and stalk back to the ship. Volga
catches up with me.
“Where are you going, Lyria?” she asks.
“Not your problem.”
“Her men are coming. If we wait here, we will be safe.”
How can she say that when Victra’s men couldn’t even
protect us from the Ascomanni in the heart of her ﬂagship?
If they come here…I shake my head.
“We owe her a debt,” Volga presses.
“I paid mine in that cell. So did you. You think she’s
helpless because she’s packing a baby? She’s a Peerless
Scarred, you idiot.”
“I am not an idiot,” Volga says, oﬀended.
“You really want to get tangled with them? Is that what
Ephraim would want you to do?”
“Ephraim is broken. I could run from that up there. But if
I run from this…” She shakes her head, then raises it high.
“My debt will be paid when I return her child to her.” She
sets a hand on my shoulder. “Do it with me.”
I look at Volga’s knife tucked into her waistband. The
blood from Fig’s eyes seeps through their hiding place in
her shirt. She thinks she’ll get rich oﬀ this. Fool. “Hope she
gives you all the money you ever wanted. Unlike you, I’m
not for sale.”
I leave her.
Soon I’ve packed half the supplies I found in the
wreckage and donned a set of gray thermal pants from a
supply locker. With my feet slipping around in the too-large
boots of some dead Gray, I start walking south, away from
the crash site. Part of me waits for Volga to catch up with
me.
She doesn’t.

All that lies before me is stone and icy sludge. A vast
landscape that would swallow me without anyone noticing.
This isn’t home. This is the ﬁrst time I’ve felt truly alone
since replying to Volga’s note. How does that already seem
a lifetime ago?
I look back at the ship. It’s little more than a dot now. I
don’t have a plan, but I don’t want to be saved by Victra’s
men. I don’t want to be traded back to Ephraim and owe
him for the favor. I’d rather freeze to death trying to go it
on my own.
Walking along the fjord, I see several ships skimming just
over the dark water down below as they head for the crash
site. They’re little more than dots at this distance. That’ll
be Victra’s men. Takes me almost a minute to ﬁgure how to
turn on the oculars I foraged. When I’ve got them working,
I focus on the lead ship. I roll the magniﬁer. Ship looks like
a pelican, one of those old transports with those round
bodies and slightly curved wings. A bit less stately than I’d
expect for a Gold’s rescue party. No Julii or Barca insignia
either. I switch to the next one. Another pelican, older. On
its side is painted the face of a Pink model drinking a bottle
of Ambrosia. I pause. Its lights blaze just as they did that
day when my family was butchered.
I turn and run back across the plateau. I’m dizzy from
exhaustion by the time I ﬁnd Volga near the crash site,
helping Victra out of her battered armor. Volga smiles at
me.
“I knew you would come back.”
“Red Hand.” I gasp for air. “Red Hand is coming.”
Volga slings forward a scavenged riﬂe. “Red Hand? Are
you certain?”
“It’s a day for vultures,” Victra mutters. She scans the
sky, and I think she ﬁnally understands that, for some
reason, her men aren’t coming. “They’ll kill me and the

coldie.” She glances at me. “Might be worse for you,
Gamma.”
I look at her belly. It’s about ready to burst. “Can you…”
She bolts, already ten meters away and moving fast.
Volga’s on her tail. Shit.
I struggle after them in the deep snow. They’re incredibly
fast. Victra’s legs drive her like pistons through the forest
and straight up a huge hill as she cradles her stomach.
Volga ambles along behind her, struggling to keep up. Soon
they’re out of sight, and I follow only by their tracks. But
soon those disappear as well. I search the ground, and
something glows on a branch. A fading yellow handprint.
There’s more on the tree limbs heading right. Thermal
ghosts.
My hand drifts to my head.
What is inside me?
I climb up the tree and shimmy along its branches,
hurling myself along them to follow until they drop down
and the tracks continue through the snow. A stitch has
made its way into my side by the time I catch up to them
atop the hill. Volga’s lying on her belly wheezing for air.
Victra’s squatting behind a rock, peering down at the crash
site.
“Bloodydamn,” I mutter as I fall into the snow beside
them.
“Told you she’d spot the tracks,” Victra says to Volga.
Volga looks at me in confusion, then points at Victra’s
belly. “How fast are you without that?”
“It would be rude to brag.”
Still heaving for air, I pull myself up on a rock to look
over. The shuttles are just setting down. No thermal
readouts come this time. Several dozen shouting Reds pour
out the back. I hand Victra my oculars. She pushes them
away as if I insulted her. I pull them up to look through

them, but Volga takes them away to use for herself.
Muttering, I watch with my naked eyes as the Reds search
the interior of the crash site. A lone ﬁgure stands apart
from the rest of them.
“Well, damn my eyes,” Victra says with narrowing eyes.
“The chief bitch herself. What in Jove’s name is she doing
here?”
“Who?” I ask.
Victra considers, then refuses to answer. Volga’s gone
stiﬀ. I reach to take my oculars back. Volga surrenders
them reluctantly. Victra snatches them away. “Doesn’t
matter,” she says.
“Let her see,” Volga says. “She has a right.”
“See what?”
“Time to go,” Victra says.
“Give me the oculars.” I snatch at them, but she pushes
me oﬀ like a child. Simmering, I glare back over the rock at
the lone ﬁgure. There’s an ache at the base of my skull.
Slowly the blurry ﬁgure begins to sharpen. Not magnify
exactly, but become substantial, recognizable to my brain
even though she is little more than a pinprick.
When she turns, I go very still. Her face is as I remember
it. Half beauty. Half horrible scar. It was stained green by
the gunﬁre that killed my brother when she pulled the
trigger.
“I know that woman,” I whisper.
Volga frowns. “How can you—”
“Her name is Harmony,” Victra says, watching me with
curiosity. “The bad seed of Ares. And the leader of the Red
Hand. I see you remember her.”
“She attacked 121,” I murmur. Heat radiates down my
spine, deepening until a pinching sensation grips the back
of my skull. Pixels ﬂash across my vision. My heart begins
to race as my limbs prick with sensation. It’s like I can hear

everything around me. The gurgling of gastric ﬂuids in
Volga’s empty stomach. The sound of each ﬂake of snow
falling. The purr of the distant ship. Even the movement of
Victra’s baby in her womb. Then the orb whispers again
from Volga’s side.
Victra frowns at me, noting a change. “So your ﬁle reads.
Kavax let her slither away.”
“She killed your brother,” Volga asks. “Scars, yes?” I told
her that in the notes.
My hearing reverts to normal. I nod my head, torn
between confusion and rage. “And my father, and my sister,
and her children. Why is she here?”
“Her husband and children died in a mine my family
owned,” Victra says. “That woman is why Sevro’s father
ended up with his head in a box. Couldn’t stand that Ares
was a Gold. As for how she knew I was here…” She chews
her lip in thought.
“Do you want me to kill her?” Volga asks, shifting her
riﬂe.
“No,” Victra says.
“I was not asking you.”
I stare at Harmony. She’s clearer even than before. She’s
lighting a burner as two men with long metal sniﬀer
modjobs instead of noses begin sniﬀing the snow. “Could
you hit her from here?”
“Probably.”
“Don’t mock the poor girl,” Victra says. “It’s one point
two kilometers. You’d need a drift scope in this wind. With
that pulseRiﬂe’s muzzle-ﬂash, you’ll bring those shuttles
down on our heads.”
“This does not concern you,” Volga tells the Gold.
“That woman has declared a blood war on my family,”
she says. “It concerns me. And when they pick us oﬀ from

those shuttles because you couldn’t delay revenge, it’ll
concern all of us. Including my baby.”
Volga ignores her. “Lyria, do you want me to kill her?”
I see Harmony’s head crack like an egg. I see blood
smear on the snow. I see her gurgling through a hole in her
throat. Maybe one in her belly. But one look at Victra’s
belly and her knuckles going white as she grips her razor
convinces me otherwise. Would Victra kill us even before
Volga ﬁred?
“No,” I say. “She’s not worth it.”
Is it for the sake of the baby or Volga’s life that I say
that?
Either way, it’s not the response Victra expected. Her
hand leaves the hilt of her razor. Volga breathes in relief
and sets her riﬂe on her knees. I feel a strange comfort
knowing what she was ready to do for me despite the risk.
“They’ll ﬁnd our tracks soon,” Victra says. There are
booms high overhead. The night sky spasms with light.
“Those…Ascomanni, for lack of better classiﬁcation, hacked
the computer. I didn’t think they could. They took control of
the guns. They shredded the escape pods when you two
were passed out.” She grimaces. “Had to turn oﬀ our
beacon, so the Pandora couldn’t home in an orbital strike.
With all that debris…My men aren’t coming. Not soon
enough at least. We’re on our own.”
She squints south toward the dark forest. It stretches as
far as the eye can see. Her hand drifts to her belly, her only
concession to fear. I ﬁnd myself admiring her coolness even
as I hate her. But in the presence of Harmony, that hate
suddenly feels so very small. “We need to ﬁnd a com array
or get a boat that can take us south across the sound,” she
says. “And we need to go now.”

***Ephraimover Olympia. The morning is
bright as I walk the ﬂuﬀy white streets. I needed to be
away from Eagle Rest. It’s been four hours since I
descended the stairs and I still can’t walk oﬀ the meaty
scent of blood and manure from Valdir’s murder of
Godeater.
It does not take long for passing machines to ruin the
snow. Sounds of industry clatter through the city. Reds who
once languished in assimilation camps work on ﬂoating
construction skiﬀs, repairing the city in Seﬁ’s bid to restore
Olympia’s grandeur. They’re doing a hell of a job. While
Quicksilver pocketed the money from his helium, Seﬁ pours
it into Cimmeria. Their rule is absolute. Their executions of
Red Hand terrorists public and brutal. But they’re
spreading the wealth around.
Lines of Reds and lowColors fresh from the countryside
snake out from labor registration facilities. Each is given
lodging, a fair salary, and a sense of purpose they’ve not
NOW NO LONGER FALLS

had in years. Many midColors now work for Seﬁ as
administrators. Others are left alone to make money
however they see ﬁt, so long as the Obsidians get a piece.
The city is coming back to life. I don’t feel that same
optimism. Seﬁ may be good for Mars, for Lyria’s people,
but not for Volga.
Or is it not my choice to make?
Markets which were home to vagrants and bonﬁres when
I arrived now bustle with new shops full of produce from
southern Cimmeria, ﬁsh from the Thermic, textiles from
Agea, exotic wares from the Core. Obsidians walk alongside
Silvers and Browns and Coppers and Reds. It isn’t utopia,
but it isn’t war either. Seﬁ’s dream is coming alive. It’s
been weeks since the last Red Hand bombing. Before his
breakdown, Valdir had steadily been chasing them from
their strongholds up to the highlands. Some say even
across the sound.
It will all break apart when Seﬁ dies.
I can’t let her bring Volga into this, but so long as the
Julii still has her, I have to play along with Seﬁ’s game. She
knows she has me on a leash.
A Red boy tries to pickpocket me near a gambling den. I
clout him on the ears and then show him proper technique
by stealing the chronometer of a passing Silver. I ﬂip it to
the boy, and tell him to make his hands move smooth as the
chronometer if he wants to keep them.
He stares at me after I tousle his hair. “You’re Ephraim ti
Horn,” he says.
“Am I?” I look instinctively for Syndicate thorns and
laugh when he spits on my jacket. “Hail Reaper!” he cries,
and tries to punch me. I yelp and backpedal when I see
more Reds coming to investigate.
I lose them by ducking into a brothel. My nose curls at
the familiar smells, and I fend oﬀ the madam until the Reds

pass. I think it was a bloody lynch mob. Reaper’s people are
damn mad. Having lost my taste for a walk, I make for the
long climb up the Bellona Stairs back to Eagle Rest.
I’m almost trampled by two Reds running past. No
manners at all. Am I back in Hyperion? Then I notice a
change in the foot traﬀic. Those with datapads or optic
implants stand ﬁxated on their internal and external
screens. Others rush for bars or the Alltribe’s new
multimedia stations. Even a uniformed Obsidian Watchman
and his Red partner let a shoplifter loose to drift toward a
window. I fall in behind them.
Light from a hologram of a space battle splashes through
the window. It’s the Pandora. She’s under attack. I sprint
back to the stairs.
—
The Pandora fell to ships bearing Alltribe colors at 0930
Olympia Time.
The sky rained bodies not long after.
I caught the battle in ﬂashes through windows as I raced
home. I watched the bodies on my datapad after I passed
Eagle Rest security.
The bodies were stripped naked and dumped over Agea
at high altitude. In the sunlight, the pale rain of corpses
looked almost elegant, like human-shaped feathers twirling
through the air. Their fall could almost be mistaken for
ﬂight until they collided with Agea’s skyhooks and
skyscrapers and parks and paved boulevards and white
stone plazas and the roof of Lighthold like a hundred
thousand bugs on a windshield.
The corpses were dropped by four Alltribe troop carriers.
Two are shot down by the time I make it to the skuggi
training armory. By the time I’m kitted up in scarabSkin
and skipBoots, belted with gear, and laden down with a

huge insulated carry box for the neodymium magnet, new
drones have caught footage of an Obsidian brave in an
Alltribe uniform being dragged out of the third ship by
aerial commandos. They’ll think Seﬁ ordered the attack.
But why in Jove’s name would Seﬁ attack Victra?
She wouldn’t.
It had to be Volsung Fá. He’s got Seﬁ’s number, setting
up a war. Volga was likely one of those bodies dropped over
Agea. The thought almost sends me into a downward spiral.
But I can’t let it distract me. Without Volga, Seﬁ has no
leash on me. She’ll freeze my movement. She’ll trap me in
the sinking ship. Worse. She’ll trap the kids. And from what
I’ve seen of Volsung Fá, he has a plan, and its escalation.
With the tensions between the Republic as they are, this
will be war if they buy that the Alltribe was in on this.
That means the kids become real hostages.
So I gotta get them out, and my window for exit is
quickly closing.
That kid better be wearing his harness under his
clothing. I didn’t get him that garage just to tinker with
gravBikes.
I take care to choose spider-paralytic from the designer
rounds and ﬁt a magazine into my pistol, then throw on my
jacket, loop a pack of explosives under my arm, and run to
the Snowball to attach the hook Pax made in the garage to
the back of the landing ramp. Oh, this will be nasty. I pick
my gear back up.
“Grarnir?” a man says from behind. I turn. Gudkind,
Freihild’s replacement as vynKjr of the skuggi, stands in
the doorway of the hangar. Two of my cleverer skuggi ﬂank
him. “Grarnir!” he calls without aggression. “The Queen
commands your presence. You’re to join her in the western
bunker.”

There it is. Seﬁ’s soldiers won’t mean me harm, but she’ll
never let me go out of her sight with the kids again. I have
to act now, while I still have access to my ship.
When Gudkind sees my scarabSkin, the neodymium carry
case, and the bag of explosives, his hand drifts toward his
poison-edged throwing knives. The other two skuggi frown
and turn the safeties oﬀ their pulseRiﬂes. They’re confused.
They just wanted to bring me to their queen.
“Sorry lads. It’s not personal.”
I get the drop on them, but damn they’re fast.
In one ﬂuid motion, I grab my pistol in its holster, fall ﬂat
on my back to minimize my exposure, and push my toes
down on the pressure pads. The skipBoots release an
impulse that shoves me into a ten-meter backward slide. I
ﬁre three times through the holster. Gudkind’s knives skim
centimeters above my nose. Their pulseRiﬂe rounds pound
into the hangar walls behind me. I stand up. All three
skuggi are rigid as boards from the paralytic slugs
embedded in their foreheads. And then they teeter over,
drooling foam.
I strip their coms and as I bound on the skipBoots like a
grasshopper, I apologize. “I know you’re just following your
Queen’s orders. But this boat’s going down.”
As I plant the explosives on the southern landing pad, I
watch Mars go mad. The Republic news channels froth with
anger and racial vitriol at the attack on the Pandora. They
claim it was Seﬁ’s version of poetic irony. The rain on
Mercury claimed one million Obsidians. Here is Seﬁ’s rain,
on the home of Lionheart and the Reaper, on the capital of
the Rising. The revenge of the coldbloods. The inevitable
pestilence of their nature.
The world outside churns by the time I make it to an
overlook of the training ludus. The children are not at their
lessons. I don’t have access to their safety protocols for

obvious reasons, but if Seﬁ is in the west bunker, they will
be headed there too. Going aerial is dangerous with soft
targets, so they would have taken the tunnels that emerge
in the western statue park just near the bunker. I can beat
them there if I ﬂy.
Oh Hades, I’m going to die.
My mind races as I bound up marble steps and across
snowy courtyards. It wasn’t the Alltribe in those ships. It
had to have been Ascomanni. They’re trying to start a war.
Volga was in a cell. If they boarded, there is almost no
chance she escaped. I see her falling in that rain over Agea.
Her bones turning to splinters on the concrete roads.
This is the worst time for the insurance plan. I thought
I’d have more warning when things started going south.
Maybe I should have left the second Fá showed up, or when
Valdir went berserk. I waited too long. There will be too
many of them. I holster my guns and clutch the neodymium
box tighter. Against a pack of armored Obsidian, a pistol
won’t do much.
The exponential escalation has begun between the
Republic and Alltribe.
Seems the Republic is eager to blame the Obsidians for
the attack.
I hear it in the ripWing engines lifting oﬀ from highmountain hangars. In the thunder of metal boots. In the
drums beating in the army camps west of the city. I see it in
the throngs of mid- and lowColors the Obsidians herd away
from sensitive areas. And in the metal glinting in the sky as
orbital ﬂeets prepare for a Republic response. Dammit,
Seﬁ. Don’t strike ﬁrst at them. This is what Fá wants.
Volsung Fá isn’t a barbarian like I initially thought. If he
organized the attack on the Pandora, he’s trained in regime
destabilization. It’s textbook.
Sooner or later, some nervous ﬁnger will twitch.

Or Fá will play another card.
Then the dominoes fall. And the nukes go oﬀ.
This is how a world ends.
I won’t sit here and wait for it.
I’m too late to set up the neodymium magnet. I spot the
children in the center of a cluster of Valkyrie making their
way across a statue park toward the western bunker. The
female warriors each wear sixty kilograms of pulseArmor,
gravBoots, and full complements of weapons. Their helmets
are up. Shit, there goes any chance at sonics. In battle,
they could take a whole century of Gray legionnaires. But
this isn’t a battle, and the last thing I want is to kill them.
My legs burn as I close the distance to the Valkyrie. I
shift to ghostCloak, and activate the bombs on the southern
landing pad. They’re just big enough to break windows and
make huge mushrooms of smoke. Sirens wail. The tactical
response teams on deck in the heights of Griﬀinhold deploy
like meteors toward the pad and away from me.
I activate the Snowball’s autopilot and initiate its ﬂight
path. Back in the hangar, it will rumble over the paralyzed
bodies of Gudkind and the two other skuggi.
The Valkyrie pick up speed, shoving the children between
them. Dammit, this box is heavy. The Valkyrie’s helmet
optics will spot me now despite the ghostCloak. I’m still
forty meters out. There’s no trick that’ll work on them. No
clever lie to interrupt their orders. All they’ll see is warped
motion sprinting toward them.
Statues explode around me, throwing oﬀ the Valkyrie’s
pulseRiﬂes as the ghostCloak distorts their readouts of the
debris. Two Valkyrie pop airborne. Oh shit shit shit shit
shit. I jump as high as I can on the skipBoots, an ungainly
ten meters. I hurl the neodymium box at them. They think
it’s a bomb. They shoot it midair, melting the insulation and
freeing the griﬀin-egg-sized magnet. It bowls straight into

Braga on the ground, or at least I think it’s Braga in that
armor. There’s a tug on my belt buckle as the magnet
activates. The magnetism increases. Two airborne
Obsidians dip. Their gravBoots’ thrust capability far
exceeds the magnet’s force, but the metal components
inside the boots’ gravity generators come apart under the
shearing forces. The women fall pinwheeling out of the sky.
The other Valkyrie lose their footing and weapons as
they’re pulled toward the high-powered magnetic ﬁeld in a
knotted ball of twelve confused killing machines. Tiny
explosions crackle around the ball of Obsidians as gaspowered munitions rupture.
I land hard on the ground, damaging my boots’ shocks,
and spring one more time. The boots come apart midair
from the magnetism as I land near Pax and Electra. I
scream as something tears loose from inside my calf
muscle and stretches my scarabSkin.
There’s a second pop in my chest, a hot needle of pain. I
watch in horror as a small cylinder strains against the
inside of my scarabSkin like a parasitic alien seeking the
magnet. What is that? I take a wobbly step. The world is
going sideways. Pax runs to me as the magnet loses power.
He catches me as I fall. This is not going according to plan.
The Obsidians are lurching like gout victims away from the
magnet’s diminishing pull.
Pax looks at something over my head and shouts at
Electra. They tear oﬀ their jackets to reveal the harnesses
he built for them in the garage. The harnesses are built
according to the specs I gave him—simple but sturdy,
secured through the legs and around the hips. A spool of
ﬁberwire sits like a ﬁshing reel at their belly buttons. They
link the ends of the ﬁberwire together and inﬂate the
helium sack at the junction. They rise ﬁfty meters in the air,
unspooling the ﬁberwire as they rush to separate
themselves. There’s a roar overhead as the Snowball

rumbles along its programmed course. Its catch-hook
hangs from its belly and snags the joined ﬁberwire strands.
The reels unspool. Pax runs over to me and hugs me like a
koala as the ﬁberwire tightens and all three of us are pulled
oﬀ our feet and carried after the Snowball as it climbs away
from Eagle Rest.
It all goes woozy. Déjà vu as the mountains blur under my
feet, and the Valkyrie set oﬀ in pursuit. Their boots will
never catch the Snowball. I’m laughing and wheezing by
the time the hook retracts us into the back of the ship. Pax
disappears and Electra peels oﬀ my scarabSkin. RipWings
will be in pursuit.
Electra grabs the medkit from the wall and I watch her
face as she pulls a metal cutter from the wall and lowers it
with narrow eyes toward my chest. What is she doing? I
feel numb vibrations. Did she give me morphone?
Is that my sternum she’s cracking open?
Smoke sizzles up from my chest. She sprays a coagulant.
The artiﬁcial gravity in the ship increases dramatically,
sealing us to the ﬂoor as Pax puts us in a corkscrew. The
ship vibrates as her twin railguns spew at something
outside the hull. Time drips past as Electra works over me.
I stare at a bit of rust on the ceiling of the garage. I’ll
have to scrub that out. The Snowball is far too pretty a ship
to have rust. When I look back down, Electra is gone. It is
dark out. How much time has passed? I’m still numb from
the morphone.
I rise unsteadily to my feet and notice the long strip of
resFlesh going down my sternum. It stretches when I move
too fast. I’m glued together. That’ll hurt when the
morphone wears oﬀ.
As I stagger through the halls of the Snowball to the
cockpit, I remember the bodies falling over Agea. As I pass
the small kitchen and dining nook, I see Volga and me

bickering over Karachi as we sail between asteroid ports. I
see her lying in her bunk listening to dreadful music. I see
her ducking under the low doorways, whining about hitting
her head. The Snowball hums around me, but it has no
melody.
The little dream of our life on the lam erodes, leaving
only a ship with nothing in it but the ghosts of what was
never going to be.
I ﬁnd the two Gold children in the cockpit. The Snowball
ﬂies dark, all her active instruments oﬀ, as she carves
through a low fog layer. Only her passive sensors throb.
The sea beneath is dark and choppy. They look back in
shock from steaming cups of tea when I sit in the back row
of the cockpit. “That was…”
“Lucky,” Pax says.
“Terrible! It was fucking terrible.” I groan and hold my
chest. Feels like I’ve been kicked by a sunblood stallion.
Electra’s face gets even uglier as she wrinkles her brow.
“How are you awake? I gave you enough morphone for an
Obsidian.”
I thumb my chest woozily. “Addict. You didn’t even give
me a blanket.”
“You weren’t hypothermic.” She pauses. “Were you
awake that whole time?”
“You mean when you gleefully used a metal cutter on my
sternum? Yes.”
“Fuck. Me.” She laughs. “That’s full metal.”
I moan at the dull ache building in my chest. “I might
need a real hospital,” I say, probing the resFlesh. “What
was…those? Were those.”
“Tracker in the calf,” Pax says, passing back a
containment jar with two metal cylinders in it.
I look at my calf. Oh. It’s still weeping blood. “You forgot
something.” I extend my leg to Electra.

“Juno’s cunt. I’m not your nursemaid. There’s a staple
gun in the garage. Don’t be a Pixie about it.”
“You’re just a lovely person. What about this one?” I
point to the small cylinder alongside the tracker.
“That, Tinman, was a heartspike on your aorta,” Pax
says. “So they could turn oﬀ your heart with the ﬂick of a
ﬁnger.”
“Fuck. Me.”
“I think that was the general idea.”
“I can’t believe Seﬁ didn’t trust me,” I say, genuinely
upset. They laugh like I’m joking. “Where…” I forget what I
was going to say. “Agea?”
“We’re not going back to the Republic,” Pax replies.
“They’ll just make us wait in the Citadel. That will not do.”
Atta boy. He looks like a man sitting there in the cockpit.
Not that he’s grown. But he’s deﬁnitely changed. The
surety in his eyes, the set of his jaw—when did it happen,
when he stopped letting others choose for him?
I admire the change even as I feel it’s a loss to the world
that he’s no longer a boy. The world has enough men. But
maybe he can be a diﬀerent kind of man. Probably not. But
maybe is enough.
Dammit, my chest hurts. There’s a tube in my arm. I pull
on it until I see I’ve been trailing a blood bag. Oh. I reel it
in as he continues. “If Aunt Victra managed to get to an
escape pod, she’ll have fallen in the northern hemisphere.”
“Very speciﬁc,” Electra mutters.
“Shut up. With all the debris, the telemetry was—”
“You shut up. You almost didn’t wear your harness.”
Pax looks back at me. “That’s not true. I had to twist her
ear to get her to wear hers.”
“Teacher’s pet.”
“Troglodyte.”

“Omniprick.”
“Hatchetface.”
Electra gasps. They pout at each other in silence. I
chuckle. “I knew that got under your skin.”
“Shut up,” they say in unison.
I just grin.
“If they’re alive, we’re going to ﬁnd them,” Pax says after
a long silence.
“Them?”
“Our people, and yours, Tinman. Like it or not, you’re
with us now. And we’re done watching everyone else slag
everything up. It’s our turn.”
Electra gives me the fakest smile I’ve ever seen and
sneaks me the crux when Pax isn’t looking. I close my eyes,
feeling a weird warmth in my chest as I sigh. “What could
go wrong?”

***Virginiaoﬀ the cliﬀs of our
Martian estate, my father came to me. It was one of the few
audiences with him in which I was not summoned to stand
sweaty-palmed before his desk next to that bloodstain in
the carpet. He found me in the stables sitting in the
sawdust. He was a giant to me in those days. He stroked
the muzzle of my favorite horse and said:
“Self-pity is the plebeian’s luxury. All that occurs is either
endurable or unendurable. If it is endurable, endure it. If it
is unendurable, follow your mother.”
For once, I am thankful for the lesson.
“Kavax au Telemanus.”
A thousand reveries dance in the air. Memories drawn
from the activity of my brain’s neurons by means of the
Pandemonium Chair. Free associations for the Vox to pick
apart and glean and use to hunt down the remnants of my
family. The Greens on the other side of the shaded glass
FTER MY MOTHER THREW HERSELF

catch these images in a net and move along to the next,
cataloguing and sifting.
Hiding place.
Secret base.
Fleet orders.
Active
Howlers:
Locations.
Orders.
Rendezvous
coordinates. Rescue routes.
Sevro au Barca.
Black Cathedral. What is Black Cathedral?
Doomsday protocols.
Skyhall nuclear launch codes.
Relevant faces and words speed in the air in front of me.
It is a linear assault meant to bypass my brain’s security
conditioning. The words are an attempt to stimulate the
visual word-form area; the faces, to stimulate the fusiform
face area. This causes neuron activity in the prefrontal
cortex and temporal lobes, which Octavia’s Pandemonium
Chair then converts to visual and auditory replications.
I am no easy victim.
As part of the conditioning designed by Daxo’s
psychotechs, every night I digested false memories, which I
signiﬁed by populating the scenes with private totems—
Spanish Renaissance paintings, oﬀ-colored birds, certain
songs or low-frequency hums, the smell of a gauche
perfume—so that I can distinguish the false from the real.
The information they are gathering is a soup of false
positives, incorrect data, passwords that trigger autodestruct and locking mechanisms, and general incoherence
that would take a thousand psychotechs ten years to sort.
Fortunately there are not a thousand psychotechs in
existence. And those my enemies use are no match for me.
At times they try to use my own technology against me;
they embed small silver psychoSpikes in my forehead in an

attempt to force-hack their way through. This is much more
painful.
Time dilates, distends, slows, stops, disappears.
I may be in Publius’s clutches, but it is Lilath who did
this.
Lilath went after my child.
Lilath butchered Daxo.
Lilath toyed with me.
The Lion of Mars was shot down over Hyperion ten years
ago to stop her from fulﬁlling my brother’s last wish: for
Luna to burn. But somehow, some way, she survived. I don’t
understand. Lilath isn’t clever enough to do all this. She is
a killer, not an architect. Did Atalantia plan it? Atlas?
When I am not in the chair, my senses are robbed from
me by the psychoSpike. I cannot tell where I am
imprisoned. If I even ever leave the chair.
I ﬂoat in nothingness. No sight. No smell. No taste. No
hearing. I am only consciousness in a void. It is my fear of
what the afterlife truly holds for us.
In that void, I ﬂoat alone with my private fears. What my
husband will do when he discovers my fate. What devious
designs my enemies have for my child. What evil has
befallen Sevro and our Republic.
The despair is total and unyielding.
I continue to exist, only because with existence there is
still hope.
Though it feels so very far away. Daxo is dead.
Twice they try to link psychotechs directly to my brain as
I did with the Duke of Hands. My security packet activates.
I unleash neurological attacks. The ﬁrst man dies of a
seizure. The second blocks that attack but suﬀers a
headache and then kills himself the next day because of the
insidious memories of trauma I planted in his head.

What does Lilath want? To rule behind Publius? To
avenge my dead brother? To atomize Luna and fulﬁll his
dying wish after all these years?
Whatever she wants, I cannot open my mind to her.
In time they will break through, and my self-destruct
protocol will go into eﬀect, leading to a medulla cataclysm
that will deactivate my breathing and turn oﬀ my heart.
It is only a matter of time.
Then one day, I appear out of the void in the center of an
empty Moonhall court.
I am delighted, but do not know why.
I sit in the accursed chair dead center before a plinth
upon which Adjudicators once heard cases from behind an
emblem of the Society. The emblem is gone. Instead of the
Adjudicator’s single chair, there are now seven. A rotating
moon hangs over my head. Wardens comprise my only
company.
I smile, realizing I am physically unbound, yet I cannot
move more than my head. The psychoSpike has disabled
the nerve reﬂexes of my body beneath my sixth vertebra.
Quadriplegic then. How amusing and clever of Lilath. I
never thought to use the spike quite like this.
A sudden feeling of amazement ﬁlls me.
Let’s analyze.
I try to speak to the Wardens, who are standing in small
groups along the sides of the room, talking amongst
themselves. A cowlike moo comes out of my mouth.
Hilarious. The psychotechs have hijacked the Broca’s area
of my brain, disabling my language abilities even though I
maintain the motor skills to form sounds.
Lilath, you clever girl.
“Sorry, lass. Say again?” a Gray Warden says, laughing.
So my angular gyrus and Wernicke’s area are intact. I can
understand words and concepts. He was being an asshole.

That Warden is really quite handsome. I would kill him if I
could, naturally, yet I still wonder if his manhood is
suﬀicient to please me. Probably not. I have high
standards.
No. Don’t be distracted. My supposition was correct.
I will sit in silence as they accuse me of heinous crimes
before billions of confused, frightened citizens who will be
waiting for some clarity on the dreadfully violent massacre.
They will have been waiting for days, perhaps weeks, for
my account, and I will sit in silence as they accuse me of
murdering Dancer.
In my silence, my people will proscribe condescension
and guilt. If this were a time of peace, there would be a
rebellion and anarchy, but in a time of war, they will
swallow it just to have a leader, and I will be executed. My
son will watch. Atalantia will lift the communication
blockade on Mercury and let Darrow watch. And Lilath will
rule through Publius.
It’s masterful.
I’m distracted. That Gray warden really does have ﬁne…
Oh no.
I can feel the scores of wounds the crowd gave me
during the massacre, but not well. They are dull, distant,
and deep beneath the pleasure.They’ve hijacked the
dopamine and oxytocin levels of my brain. I’m happy when
I should be furious. I can process and understand, but feel
nothing but ampliﬁed postcoital joy.
Lilath, that bitch.
A hologram appears before me. It grows from a small
blue embryo to consume half the room.
The daylight hologram of a funeral procession enters the
Moonhall courtyard, the one outside the building in which I
currently sit. It is led by blue-cloaked Wardens on white
horses. Blackchains walk with heavy guns. Skiﬀs follow, the

same that are used in the washing of highrise windows,
now laden with victims of Publius’s purge: members of my
Lionguard and my household, senators, Skyhall oﬀicers,
businessmen, and politicos of the required hue.
And on the front of the skiﬀ, sitting with rigid dignity, is
Theodora.
The poor woman. I was nothing but hard on her. I should
have brought her closer. The distrust created gaps, and
now she will die. What a horrible world, I think with a
smile.
Publius stands with the leaders of the Vox’s radical wing
on the steps of the Moonhall. They wear their unwashed
senatorial robes stained with old blood. Ashes mark his
face for mourning.
How dramatic.
The crowd teems against barricades and soldiers, jeering
as the procession draws to a halt before the Obelisk of
Ares. It ﬂoats ten meters above the ground. Commissioned
by Victra to commemorate Sevro’s father, it bears images
of the birth of the Sons of Ares along its one-hundred-meter
length. Darrow’s image, which by tradition always faces
north, has been turned south. The hallowed sight of his ﬁrst
wife now holds the place of honor. Eo of Lykos sings in
stone before the gallows that would claim her life.
I always felt jealousy toward the dead girl. She knew
Darrow back when all he wanted was to love and be loved.
Darrow has loved me. Truly loved me in a way that cannot
exist outside of wartime, yet that love reﬂects a Gold love,
not the Red love that consumes the self, a love I could
never feel. My brain has always been too far ahead of my
heart. But even then, I cannot help but think that Eo loved
him less than he deserved.
Will he watch me die from Mercury as the enemy engines
of doom stalk ever closer?

The procession has come to a stop.
How did it work? Did Atalantia sponsor Lilath? She must
have.
Soldiers unload the prisoners at the tip of the Obelisk’s
shadow and lead them along its path to the base of the
Obelisk. There is no struggle. Many walk with a determined
step. Some few dance a little jig. Theodora lifts her eyes to
behold the last rays of the sun as light glints oﬀ the bronze
dome of the Moonhall, where blindfolded Liberty stands
with her scales. Pigeons watch from her bronze shoulders.
When the victims all have been brought to the base of
the Obelisk, Publius recites the charges of which Theodora
has been found guilty by the new power of the land—the
People’s Tribunal.
“…conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to wrest
legal authority from the Senate, conspiracy to commit
treason against the Republic…”
Each charge is met with a jeer from the crowd. The
transparent partitions are lowered around the base of the
Obelisk and Theodora is taken under and secured to a hook
of metal set in the stone. The Vox have made their mark.
Grooves have been lasered into the stone for liquid to run
into troughs beyond the partitions.
Publius completes the reading of the charges.
Theodora lifts her chin and stares straight ahead, a
woman of worth underneath the shadow of ten thousand
tons of stone. A woman who was grown in a tank, who was
raised with Cupid’s Kiss to understand that pain is relieved
only by sexual obedience, who was made to learn the art of
pleasing the men who would one day rape her body, a
woman who survived decades of sexual humiliation to
become a gloriﬁed maid, and then chose to follow a young
man at war with the world, not because she believed he

would win, but because he was the ﬁrst man to ﬁght for
her.
She fought for him, and as the stone comes down she is
ﬂattened by a marble monument dedicated to the dream
she lived for.
I close my eyes.
Did she think of him in her last moments, or some
childhood love? The tragedy of death is that I cannot ask,
and her secret dies with her.
Theodora is dead.
The Obelisk rises, stained red all along the bottom. Blood
runs through the grooves. People from the crowd rush
forward to dip their kerchiefs and banners in the blood
troughs. They wave them around as Servilla au Arcos,
Alexandar’s mother, watches them with a look of
beleaguered contempt. Then the remains are hosed away
and Servilla is secured to the grisly hook. She shouts
something. Then the stone comes down again.
Does Alexandar feel it on Mercury?
When all have been executed, the image disappears.
I hear voices moments later as the circus comes to the
courtroom. A dozen aides swirl around Publius, exultant
with their newfound power. What dreams these Vox must
have. What fools to think it comes for free. ArchImperator
Zan, surrounded by her own staﬀ, walks with Publius.
“Your agents missed their opportunity,” Zan says to
Publius. The Blue looks at me, makes a small sound of
distaste, and glares back at the Copper. “I advised you to
use Dunhul instead of your mercenaries.”
“If you weren’t so paranoid of Mars, we wouldn’t be in
this position.”
Zan sneers. “The Reaper’s brother runs two-thirds of
Mars, the Obsidian bitch runs the other third, and you say I
am paranoid?”

“He only runs Mars because your men put a bullet
through ArchGovernor O’Sicyon. As for the Obsidian, we
know whom to blame.”
They look at me.
“We have more than enough helium to act before we take
the mines back,” Publius says. “The Telemanus and
Augustus armada is on its way here. Turn your eyes to that,
Zan. I will deal with Mars.”
After Zan departs, Publius dismisses his staﬀ to the far
wall and looks at me. I search his face for some sign of evil.
Even now it is a pleasant face. A small chin and delicate
facial bones, with only a long nose to add drama. But those
eyes, for so long cold and distant, ﬂicker with excitement.
“Apologies, Virginia,” the Incorruptible says. “I am sorry
it came to this. If your child had only been delivered to me
as requested, we could have spared you this trauma. But
change is not always pretty.”
An “honorable” man like the Incorruptible could harness
the Wardens. They were poised for defection after
Wulfgar’s death. But it must have been Lilath who poisoned
the togas, and destroyed the barrier to let the mob in.
Publius isn’t an operator. But how did he know about my
agreement with Dancer? The question is driving me mad.
“I looked up to you once, you know. I truly did.” Lilath’s
puppet smiles sadly to himself and leans against the dais.
He doesn’t know he’s a puppet. He thinks he is in control.
And here comes his gorydamn speech.
“I thought you were our great hope. After the Fall, I sung
your praises. I debated radicals in our political halls. I
preached an even middle ground. I thought the Vox
misguided in their fervor.
“You were not perfect, far from it, but you were the best
we could hope for. ‘Let us be sensible,’ I said to those
radicals. ‘Let us understand we cannot make a new world

in a day.’ But I was naïve. Our whole political discourse was
like a great infant. None of us knew our business or how
big our feet were. There was no culture to build upon.
Politics was new to us, but not to you.
“I watched you dismiss the voiceless majority. I watched
you accrete power even as you spouted demokratic
platitudes. I watched you lead us rung by rung back into
the old world. Soon I knew there was no middle ground.
Only the past and the future. The poor and the rich. Us and
you. It was then I realized sensibility is torpor by a more
palatable name.
“Since the ﬁrst ape pulled himself out of the mire to
fashion an axe from stone, the meek have served the
strong. We learned to content ourselves with crumbs. We
allowed ourselves to be placated by religion. A promise of
something after all this horror. We allowed ourselves to be
enfeebled by poverty. We learned to be scolded whenever
we raised our voice. Lasting change must be slow and
steady and civil, we were told. That civility neutered us.
But tell me, Virginia, was Gold civil when they conquered
Earth? Did they assemble in peaceful protests? Or did they
come with terror?”
He paces before me, waxing grandiloquent.
“If the basis of popular government in peacetime is
virtue, the basis of popular government during revolution
must be virtue and terror. Virtue without terror is helpless
—as I have learned after ten years of being ‘the voice of
reason.’ Terror without virtue is evil—as Gold has taught.
My terror is nothing more than speedy, severe, and
inﬂexible justice. It is an emanation of virtue, a vehicle for
it.
“I know. I know. You think I allied with a monster.” He
picks lint from his toga, not knowing the strings his
monster has put in him. “But the child was meant to be
returned to you after you stepped down. You have done far

worse. You allied with the Moon Lords. Fascist slavers.” He
looks direly oﬀended. “Using a criminal organization is
hardly comparable. And now that you have removed them
for me, hardly problematic. Your attacks on their facilities
were nearly without ﬂaw.
“I know you look down on me for this monologue, but
after so many years of biting my tongue, it feels good to
have a voice. I wanted you to see the executions because
you will be found guilty today and die tomorrow, since my
techs tell me you have a self-destruct protocol in your
brain.
“Before you do—die, that is—I wanted you to understand
that I am diﬀerent from you. What remains of the Syndicate
is already being destroyed. I do not abide criminality.
Quicksilver has deserted Luna, but he will be hunted down
and put to the Obelisk like your spymaster. I do not allow
allies to escape justice when they are villains just because
they have utility. I am going to remake the world, Virginia.
It will be as it should. One without hierarchy. Without
economic class distinctions. One in which it will be criminal
to own excess wealth. Where the loftiest goal of a human
being is to serve the People. No corporations. No private
citizens. All serve one another for dignity and protection of
the common good. All men were created equal, and I will
make them so.” He claps his hands together. “Now, are you
ready for the justice of the meek?”

***VirginiaWe are joined by six radical Vox senators who survived

the massacre to comprise the People’s Tribunal. Several
dozen others join, but it will not be a public monstrosity.
Likely Publius wanted to limit the possibility of my allies
rescuing me. Whichever of them is alive. Even through the
muddle of serotonin I feel the fear of the ﬁnal tally. Will I
ever see anyone I love again?
That’s the loneliest thought.
Not my husband. Not my son. Not Kavax or Niobe or
Sevro or Leanna or even Victra. No one but these fools.
They dither ﬁrst with proclamations of the day’s
importance. Of the seriousness of my ridiculous crimes to
impose my will on humanity. Then Publius reads the
charges as the robotic cameras zip around for dramatic
angles. With one twenty centimeters from my face, I listen
and try not to smile from the chemicals racing in my brain.
“You are brought here today before the People’s Tribunal
so we may adjudicate your guilt or innocence as to the

charges of: high treason, assassination of Dancer O’Faran
and loyal senators of the people, election fraud, bribery,
conspiracy to install despotism, embezzlement, and
fornication with a known collaborator of the Core Golds,
Daxo au Telemanus. How do you plead?”
I stare at them, ﬁnding it diﬀicult to frown. They hold
themselves with such ludicrous self-importance. Canaries
pretending to be eagles. No, not canaries. Canaries can
smell death coming. They’re dodo birds.
“Silence will not save you from these charges, citizen,”
Publius says, frowning as an aide walks up and pours him a
glass of water. Something moves in the glass. The robotic
cameras go dead and drop to the ﬂoor, hacked. There’s a
noise in the back of the court.
Something resembling a scream.
Publius shouts for the Wardens to investigate. Half of the
two dozen make for the door, calling for backup as if their
coms weren’t dead. I stare straight at Publius as the
weapons ﬁre outside and grow silent.
“Publius, what’s happening?” a Red senator asks.
“It’s Sevro!” one of them cries.
But Publius knows. He knows all too well, because
moving in his glass is a squid. The remaining Wardens take
defensive positions around the entrance and the senators. I
look up at the ceiling as three transparent shapes drop
from it.
They land beside the Wardens guarding Publius and tear
oﬀ their heads.
Blood fountains onto the ghostCloaks. They deactivate to
reveal three tall Golds in black armor embedded with the
bones of complete skeletons.
I know their blood-spattered faces.
Each one was from House Pluto, the dark brotherhood
my brother formed during our year at the Institute. They

shared the hunting grounds with me as children and human
ﬂesh with my brother. Each was there at Darrow’s
Triumph, and survived ten years in isolation. They are pale
and mad from their time in our aquatic prison, and laugh as
the Vox senators scream. The Wardens at the door are
already dead. I tilt my head back just enough to see the
rest of the psychopaths enter.
Seventeen remain of the blood-soaked Martian savages
that my brother collected for his own personal quest to
depose Octavia and reach the highest oﬀice in the worlds.
Not a one of them is out of their thirties, and it seems a
hilarious realization to think that perhaps their time in
defeat will be but the footnote of their saga.
Lilath, Queen of the Syndicate, walks at the head of the
pack.
She pulls oﬀ the Red face, wig, and contacts she wore at
the Forum, and takes a black iron crown from one of her
men and sets it on her head. She walks toward me carrying
a Warden’s head. She rolls it like a playing ball toward the
speechless senators. They murmur her name in terror.
Several try to ﬂee.
She runs a hand along the back of my head as she comes
to a stop. “Publius, you’ve been very naughty.” Her voice is
dead and empty of humor. “I gave you that seat and you try
to kill me. This is not the behavior of a pet.” She produces a
studded dog collar and a leash. “Come.”
Publius does not move. The Vox senators stare at him.
“You’re in league with Boneriders?” a Red cries. “Have you
gone mad!”
Publius has lost his voice. Lilath’s becomes a whip.
“Publius, come.”
“You’re not a Red?” he murmurs.
Lilath tilts her head. “The right hand of the Emperor, a
Red? Disgusting.”

“Begone, slaver!” a Blue shouts at her. “We are free men
and women here! We wear your chains no more. We would
rather die than—”
Lilath lunges in a way the Blue probably never thought
possible. One moment she is beside me, the next, she has
tackled the Blue and is hacking her face apart with an iron
hatchet. When the Blue’s head is a ruin, Lilath walks back
to me and holds out the collar, motioning, “Publius, come.”
Publius quivers and I feel sorry for him. How this all
must have started as a distant fantasy when Lilath came to
oﬀer him her services. Closer and closer he drew to his
prize, a year away, a week away, a day away, and ﬁnally he
had power.
Now this.
That would test any soul.
His crumbles. He lowers himself to his knees and crawls
to Lilath. She ﬁts the collar around his neck very gently and
strokes his face. “You will be a good dog, won’t you?” She
stays face-to-face with him. “Won’t you?”
“Yes.” He lowers his head.
“Yes what?”
“Yes…domina.”
Lilath produces collars for the rest of the tribunal. Her
men pull them down to ﬁx them tight. Two protest and are
killed. After the survivors are ﬁtted, Lilath tilts her head to
the door behind me.
“My Emperor. Your slaves await.”
Small hands applaud from behind me and the Boneriders
bend in amorous supplication, even Lilath.
“Well done, my Queen. Well done, my friends.”
That voice.
Its accent is Lunese, but I know it to my bones.

Fear eclipses all rational thought. Little footsteps make
their way to the front of the court. An abomination wears
the face of a small boy around ten years old. Its hair is
ﬂaxen. Its face narrow. Its eyes reptilian in their cold
curiosity. It stands before the enslaved Vox carrying several
simple plates.
“I know this emotion,” the Abomination says sweetly.
“This reminds me of a novel I’ve read about a shoemaker in
old Russia. It’s this moment, isn’t it? This moment where
you breathe on all fours, your heads privately tucked to
your own chins, where the personal myth which you
shrouded around your hearts collapses under its own
weight, and you realize what you actually are. Not weak—
that would still give you a victim narrative with enough
tragic romance upon which to nurse yourselves. Not
average—you are all clever in a rudimentary way. Just
smart enough to rise above the sea of human meat to
comprehend how insigniﬁcant you really are.” The
Abomination touches Publius’s head. “We all want to be
special. It must ache to discover you are not.”
He goes to the Blue Lilath slaughtered and picks out
handfuls of her brains and deposits them upon the plates
before setting each one in front of the Vox. Lilath falls to
her knee and unveils a small box. From the box, the
Abomination draws an antique razor.
The Sword of Silenius.
He cracks the whip.
“The natural order has resumed,” he says to the Vox.
“Hic sunt leones!” say his men.
“The son of Augustus rules the Republic. But what is a
world with only lions? Do my bidding and you will be rich
and mighty. Slave Kings of the Emperor.” He points the
Sword of Silenius at them. “Now eat your supper.”

Publius is the ﬁrst to eat. As they cry and chew, the
Abomination watches and turns to me with familial
aﬀection. “Hello, sister. So nice to ﬁnally meet you.”

***Virginia“Apparently Howlers do kneel,” Lilath says.

I am in a nightmare.
The clone of my brother stands before the Morning Chair
running his hand along the smooth wood as if it held an
electric current. Still wearing his collar, Publius sits on the
ﬂoor staring at nothing. Gorgo, the Obsidian enforcer with
gold teeth, watches the clone with deep respect.
Sevro, Pebble, and Clown are driven to their knees
beside me before the Morning Chair. They have been
beaten to a pulp. Which means they look quite like I did
after the mob did its work. Even my hair is missing chunks.
My forearms are covered with poorly sutured wounds.
“You untidy abortion,” Sevro hisses at Lilath through
mashed lips. “How the hell are you still sucking oxygen?”
He glares at the clone. “And what the fucking fuck is that?”
Lilath smiles idly and sits at the foot of the clone’s chair.
Boneriders rove about. Made all the more mad by their

isolation in Deepgrave, they have decorated the room with
the corpses of Republic Wardens.
“Mustang, what is this?” Sevro asks. “Who’s the beadyeyed rodent?”
“That is a clone of my brother,” I reply. The spike has not
been removed, but no longer plays with my serotonin
levels. Instead, my legs are paralyzed. I barely notice.
“The Jackal?” Pebble whispers.
“Bullshit,” Sevro says. “Bullshit.” He tries to stand, but
receives a kick from a Bonerider to his stomach. He falls
gasping. Gorgo walks up to him and kicks him again for
good measure before returning to the clone. “How…”
“The Emperor is a master strategist,” Lilath proclaims.
“He sees all.”
“He sees all,” Gorgo echoes.
“I was not certain my plan to wrest control of the
Sovereigncy from Octavia would work,” the Abomination
says, still examining the chair. “So I left dear Lilath
instructions and samples of my DNA in case my life was
spent in the eﬀort. I left messages and instructions to
myself. One can never be too careful.” He walks around the
chair, eyes barely coming over the top. “After she recovered
from her own wounds, Lilath went to Earth and found
Zanzibar the Master Carver, and proved her ultimate
loyalty by growing me in her own womb.”
Sevro literally throws up. He spits bile on the ground.
“You that desperate to get the Jackal inside you, the only
way you could do it was by shitting out his clone?”
Lilath lunges forward, so close to caving in Sevro’s skull
with her hatchet.
The Abomination calls out her name and she stops midswing. The look she gives him is deep with aﬀection, none
of it motherly. No one misses it, not even the Boneriders,

but they don’t seem to care one lick. The joy they feel being
in their armor again is almost childlike.
“That is the most bent thing I have ever heard,” Clown
says.
Pebble squints at Clown. “Did you give us LSD again?
You know I hate LSD.”
“Quality stock like Victra choosing a mongrel for a mate
is far more perverse than simple cloning,” the clone says.
Lilath blinks unhappily at the mention of the Julii. Victra’s
sister, Antonia, was my brother’s lover before he died. And
she did not look like Lilath. “But that was the opinion of my
ﬁrst life. I care very little, except for the pollution of the
gene pool that you and your mongrel children represent.”
“My babies’d eat your heart out with a spoon,” Sevro
says.
“Oh please, Sevro. It wouldn’t do to make me fret.” He
taps his ﬁnger on his chin. “I have learned something
watching this Republic. People only obey when it costs
them something to disobey. So. The next time you threaten
me, Sevro, I will teach you how much it costs, and we’ll see
if it happens again. Prime?”
“Don’t talk to me like you know me. I don’t know you.
You little…freak. You’re not a real person. You’re just an
afterbirth. Mustang, how have you not vomited all over
yourself?”
I stay silent, unable to put my cluttered thoughts to
words. Daxo, Dancer, Theodora dead. Who else? Holiday?
Darrow’s mother? Kavax? Who else because of my
monstrous bloodline?
Daxo was my best friend.
And this…this is what killed him?
I feel shattered. If this creature got ahold of Pax…
Thank Jove for Victra. Keep him safe. Keep Electra safe.
“Mustang…” Sevro says. “Can you hear me?”

“Her name is Virginia,” the clone says to Sevro. “The
same blood runs through her veins as in mine. I am Adrius,
and I am not Adrius. In some ways I am less. In some I am
more. I have learned from my ﬁrst life, studied the archival
recordings of the Institute, and the lives of my enemies.”
He sits down in the Morning Chair.
“Pulling apart your Republic was so easy a child could do
it.” He smiles. “I cannot rule publicly, of course. In time,
perhaps. But until then, my socialist dog will do.” He
strokes Publius’s head. The disgraced senator ﬂinches. “I
did intend for Pax to be my Passage so I could earn my scar.
But Seﬁ interfered, and Atlas insisted Lilath not pursue.”
I ﬁnally speak. “The Fear Knight would never ally with
you. You nuked Luna.”
“He doesn’t know I exist, of course. This was my design,
my Day of Red Doves, my little birds sang such sweet songs
to me.”
He gestures to the high windows where the pachelbel
sing. There were pachelbel in the window when Dancer and
I met. There were pachelbel in the gardens where I had so
many conversations. But we checked them for hardware
when Sophocles kept eating them. It must be something
more sophisticated than that.
“Atlas and Atalantia merely liaised with Lilath in the
end,” the clone continues. “We were going to sell Electra to
Julia au Bellona. Old debts and all.” He smiles at Lilath. She
looks pleased to be out of her Red disguise and back in her
Bonerider armor. “The fools think they have a puppet on
Luna, a Red Queen. What a hollow farce.” He taps his
ﬁnger to his lips. He is identical to Adrius. Even in his tics,
if not in his memories.
“I’m going to kill you,” Sevro says. “Didn’t get the
pleasure last time. And it will be slow.”

The clone watches him without emotion. “I told you the
next threat would cost you. This is your fault. Gorgo, please
bring in the wolf and the prisoners.”
The Obsidian disappears out a side passage.
A moment later, the great Sun Doors at the far end of the
hall open. Syndicate thorns guide in a cargo skiﬀ loaded
with a giant iron statue of a howling wolf. It thumps against
the ground as it sets down behind us. Sounds come from
inside. A voice calls out through the iron.
“Min-Min?” Pebble whispers beside me.
“No. No. No. No. No,” Clown murmurs.
Sevro just watches as the iron wolf begins to glow with
heat. The iron thumps as the Howlers inside try to kick
their way out. Smoke slithers through the wolf’s nostrils.
Then the trapped men and women inside begin to scream.
As they melt in its belly, their cries of agony funnel through
the chamber of the wolf’s throat to ululate into a howl.
When no more howls escape the wolf, and the smell of
roasted meat ﬁlls the room, the clone speaks. “Did you
learn your lesson, Sevro?” Sevro does not reply. He’s not
inside his body at all. Neither are Clown and Pebble. Their
eyes are glassy, their shoulders slumped. Sevro’s eyes are
dry and dead.
“I hope you have, Sevro. Because I have great plans for
you. My sister has uncovered ways to play with the mind. I
am going to play with yours. So the next time you see your
wife, your daughters, you will not even know who they are.
I will strip you of all you wanted, as you and your pack
stripped me of all I wanted.” He strokes the chair. “Then
we will be even.”
I have never seen Sevro afraid like this. He glances at
me, knowing full well what we did to the Duke of Hands.
And now that it is his turn, all the blood rushes from his
face. His hands tremble at his sides as if he had been

electrocuted. His girls are his everything. With an animal
scream, he lunges for Adrius, and gets just far enough for
Lilath to personally beat him to the ground. He gets up,
and she nails him in the head with the hilt of her hatchet.
He stands again, bleeding everywhere, and another
Bonerider kicks him in the kidneys. Time and again, he
stands up and takes a step toward the clone until Lilath
kicks him in the head two steps short.
Sevro goes limp on the ground.
And I can do nothing.
My conﬁdence, my proud intellect, are dormant in the
face of this. I am paralyzed inside and out with horror.
“Just kill us and end this ridiculous show,” I snap. The
clone’s face is blank for me as Boneriders drag Sevro away.
“You are not Adrius. You’re just playing the role she taught
you.” I point at Lilath.
The clone walks down from his perch to cup my face.
“The blood that runs through your veins runs through
mine. You are my sister, Virginia. My only blood. How could
I ever kill you?” He strokes my hair. “You are family. Too
long you have been weighed down by fools and insects. You
deserve a second chance.” Behind him, Lilath sucks on her
teeth. “You deserve true dominion over the sheep.”

***Virginiaat a banquet for jackals. My
brother’s creatures could never have been accused of
sanity before their imprisonment, but after so long robbed
of power, they have become mad with the taste of it. As
night sets, Sunhall turns to orgiastic bedlam. Niobe’s ﬂeet
has arrived with the ships of my house, House Telemanus,
House Arcos, and almost all the lesser Gold houses of the
Republic. The Vox ﬂeet over Luna gathers in formation to
block their way to the planet. The hologram of the pending
space battle ﬂoats over the room.
While the Republic eats itself, the Boneriders party.
Safe behind Citadel walls and puppet legions, they
indulge in yellow and green mountain ranges of narcotics.
They have emptied the Citadel cellars of my husband’s
whiskey and chug down bottles of wine that have been in
my family for generations. Their Syndicate servants ferry
them supplies of Pinks and political enemies. On them, they
indulge their most depraved appetites. Some poor souls are
AM THE GUEST OF HONOR

fetched from the deep cells to be used for fencing practice,
or made to ﬁght each other naked in gladiatorial bouts to
the death. The bodies fall to the ﬂoor to die, and thorns
drag them out and bring new ones in. The prisons,
brimming as they are with the Vox’s enemies, have an
unlimited supply. When I have to watch the Silver senator
Britannia ag Krieg face down an unarmed, drunk
Bonerider, I turn away. She no longer seems an adversary,
or even a rich woman. To them, she’s just the lower
species.
Britannia dies with the sound of wet towels slapping
stone.
I have seen almost all there is to see, so it is not the
barbarity that irks me. It is the shallowness of their cause.
There is no cause. There is no religion, no delusion of
honor, only some vague notion of retribution and
domination, which means little more to them than the
degradation of their enemies. To me, these ten years have
felt like a hundred, full of texture and trials and triumphs.
But these savages were frozen in time in Deepgrave. They
did not evolve. They only want to live in the past. In that
ﬂeeting moment of youth, where even the Sovereign feared
the House Pluto of Mars’s Institute. They were barely past
twenty years old and all worlds were laid out before them.
Now in their ecstasy, they don’t realize how far behind
everyone else they are. Or maybe that is the reason for the
ecstasy. Maybe they all know they are doomed because of
their own nature, and they want to live in the sun while it
shines.
How long can this ruse really last?
I stayed quiet to assess the situation well after my initial
shock wore oﬀ. I have learned much. My real brother
loathed the Boneriders. He mocked them behind their
backs. But the best soldiers are often the hollow ones,
whom you can ﬁll with your own purpose. This clone

doesn’t know he’s supposed to hate the Boneriders. He was
raised by a woman who worshipped the Jackal and the
Boneriders, and thought the two inseparable. How
disappointed the clone must be in the legends he was
raised on.
I sit at his left hand, a place of secondary honor. Lilath
eats her hummingbird eggs across the table from me. She
feeds like a pelican, head down, eyes up, slurp, slurp, slurp.
Like clockwork, her eyes ﬂick to the clone to make sure
he has everything he needs. When he stops drawing with
his stylus on a datapad after a Pink screams from a
Bonerider arrow, Lilath bolts to attention. It is almost
grotesque to see how quickly the dead-eyed killer melts
into suﬀocating sycophant. “What is it, my Emperor? Do
you possess everything you need?”
Lilath loved my brother. I’ve always known it. But now
that love is something wrong. She would have been his
lover, but he liked pretty harpies like Antonia. So instead,
Lilath gave birth to his clone. I do not believe I understand
psychology enough to try to unravel that.
But I wager the clone has.
And that is the vulnerability of this little cabal. I glance
up at the arrayed ﬂeets.
In reply to Lilath’s query, the clone forms a simple threedimensional puzzle on his datapad and ﬂicks the ﬂoating
image to her oﬀ his datapad. “Can you solve that?” Sitting
up straighter, she peers at it. Slowly her eyes lose their
gleam as she realizes she doesn’t even know there is a
puzzle. He looks at me to make a joke of her. I never
thought I’d see Lilath squirm from shame.
Her inﬂuence is slipping. She did fail him with the
abduction of Pax and Electra. Now she is frightened I will
steal him away. And he is afraid that I will let him down like
these Boneriders have. How long did it take for his mind to

be useful to her, I wonder. Has it been four years, ﬁve? She
did much on her own. But how long will he need her now
that he has his other Boneriders? Now that he has the Vox
legions through his puppets? She must wonder. She must
be afraid. And he must be annoyed that he is still so small.
I know where to drive the wedge.
“If he had all he needed, Lilath, I would already be a
blank slate, wouldn’t I?” She says nothing. The clone
watches intently as I solve the puzzle, add two new
polygons, and spin it back to him. He looks at it for a
moment and then smiles in delight. He adds a fresh twist to
the puzzle and hurls it back. This volley lasts the better
part of thirty excruciating minutes as the ﬂeets probe one
another over our heads.
I have a strange feeling inside as he pauses the game to
spend several minutes on a separate datapad making
adjustments to his battleplan. The ships above move
according to his wishes after a slight delay.
His last volley was an oddity. He did not try to beat me
with it. In fact, he seemed surprised and then delighted to
see I could solve his puzzles. After that, he was just having
fun. By the third puzzle, so was I. I would have given
ﬁngers oﬀ my hand for my twin to sigh like that when we
were children. All my life, I thought my brother was born
broken. He wasn’t. Perhaps he was just born with an
incompatible father.
“Do you remember our puzzles?” I probe the clone as he
watches two destroyers test the Telemanus ﬂank. He
frowns as they are repelled.
“I know they occurred,” he says, giving new orders
through his datapad. “Evidence here and there.”
I glance at Lilath with a smile. The puzzles deﬁned my
relationship with my brother. I don’t know how many he
gave me over the years, but I know how many I kept. I

solved each one, and he’d smile and congratulate me. But
sometimes I would follow him, and see him slapping
himself and gouging his skin, screaming, “Stupid, stupid,
stupid.”
If this was his insurance plan, he’d have given his clone
all the information he needed to become himself again. The
puzzles were a key component of a rivalry that shapes his
psyche. He would have included the puzzles. And if he’d
included them, he wouldn’t have been surprised I could
solve the ones during our volley. The fact that he was
surprised is the loose thread I’ve been looking for. I glance
up at the ﬂeets as he lures a Telemanus corvette into a
trap, and pull on the thread as quickly as I dare.
“I’m surprised you enjoyed me solving these,” I say.
“What do you mean?”
“It used to anger you so.”
He stares at me. “Did it?”
“Don’t you remember? Sometimes you would hit yourself
and call yourself stupid for failing to fool me.”
“Did I ever?”
“No.”
He puzzles over that for a moment, then looks at Lilath.
Is it possible that she redacted some of the information
Adrius passed down to his clone? By the look on his face, it
isn’t the ﬁrst time he’s wondered it.
“She’s lying,” Lilath says, seeing the wedge but not
knowing how to blunt it. Killing is more her game. “You are
the brightest mind in this Solar System.” Ah, so there’s the
diﬀerence. This clone has been raised to believe he is a
god. My brother was kicked and beaten and left on a rock
to die more than once. One earned his victories. The other
feels entitled to them.
“Are you doing this for Lilath?” I ask the clone. “Or is it
for Adrius?”

“I am Adrius,” he says.
“Do you want to be?”
He tilts his head to examine me as the Martian ﬂeet
withdraws to reassess their strategy after losing two more
corvettes.
“Don’t let her pour poison in your ear, my Emperor. She
always thought you were a monster,” Lilath says to him.
Turning to me, she says, “You betrayed him to slaves. You
abandoned your own brother. You hung him from the
gallows yourself. He should have been worshipped by the
world. But you just stepped all over him. You hated him.
You called him a monster.”
“If I hated him, why did I pull his feet?” I ask. “If I didn’t
love him, why would I keep those puzzles?”
Lilath goes still. Eat that, bitch. The clone activates,
leaning forward. I suspected artifacts from Adrius’s life
would be of almost religious importance to him. Practically
feeling the evil vibrations from the clone, the Boneriders
stop their play and watch in silence.
Gods, they could just snap him in half, but they’re afraid
of him. Not just that. They respect him, worship him. It
really runs that deep. I had no idea. I thought it was just
Lilath. Did my brother tell them if they lost, he would free
them in ten years’ time? Is he a leader? Or a prophet?
“Where are those puzzles?” the clone asks.
“My private oﬀice.”
“On Mars?”
“Here.”
He remains perfectly still. “Lilath.” She swallows. “Did I
not tell you to leave my sister’s quarters as they were?” He
waits. And waits. The Boneriders watch with smiles as the
ten-year-old spanks maybe the hardest woman on all of
Luna, and she just takes it. They all want to be number two.
So there’s this pack’s dynamic. “Answer, Lilath.”

“You did.”
“So why did you disobey me?” He leans forward. “Did
you plan the Day of Red Doves? Did you use the White
Guilds to start a war?” What does he mean by that? “You
are a blunt instrument, Lilath. You know this. I treat you
with respect. And you dare meddle with my designs?”
“I thought they would prove a distraction, sir.”
“I pray for your sake they have not been destroyed.”
“No!” she says. “You made them.”
“Where are they?” I ask, hoping I’m right.
The clone stands up. “You heard my sister, Lilath. She
may not be our ally, but she is of better blood than you.
Answer her with due respect.”
Lilath looks at me with abject hatred. “In my quarters.”
The clone looks disgusted, as if he’d found her going
through his drawers to smell his underwear. “Have them
restored to their original locations. I will view them at
once.”
“But the battle…”
He glances at the Telemanus ﬂeet, which makes no new
movements toward the planet. “They have little appetite for
blood. They’re trying to break through our jammers to
broadcast to the people. We have time.”
—
The clone stands in my private oﬀice staring at the puzzles
Lilath took from the room to hide for herself. He has not
spoken for ﬁve minutes. I am surprised Lilath found the
hidden vestibule behind the wall. It seems, however, she
did not ﬁnd the hidden passage within it.
“Must that low blood watch us like this?” I ask him. “She
looks like a jealous vulture.”

“Leave us,” he says almost in a whisper. Lilath’s cold
eyes dart to me.
“My Emperor…it would not be wise.” I ﬂop down in a
chair near a coﬀee table covered with books and a vase of
night lilies.
“Paralyze my legs if you’re so afraid.”
The clone eyes the table behind me with suspicion.
“There were defense-related systems located in the table,”
Lilath reports. “We deactivated them, my Emperor.”
“And the dining table?”
“Deactivated as well.” The clone points to a diﬀerent
chair at the small dining table and another vase of assorted
ﬂowers, almost all of which are dead. I sit in the chair and
he paralyzes my legs via the psychoSpike.
“See, that wasn’t so hard,” I say.
He turns to Lilath. “If she kills me, she kills Sevro and
the others. If she’ll pay that price, she’s earned it.”
Lilath lowers herself into a wary bow, and backs with our
two sober Bonerider escorts toward the door. The clone
looks back at the puzzles. I was hoping it wouldn’t be
paralysis, but nothing is easy.
“I know you are playing a game,” the clone says as the
door closes. “But I don’t fault you for it. This all started as a
game. It wasn’t until four years ago I heard my recording
to myself. Lilath had instructions to follow, a psychological
proﬁle of the proper puppet to sponsor for a Senate run.
Publius ﬁt my speciﬁcations perfectly. She did take control
of the Syndicate on her own, but the underworld wasn’t
prepared for her level of violence. She is possibly one of the
most eﬀective soldiers I have ever seen. That’s both of me
talking. But she only goes in one direction at a time.”
He walks down the line of puzzles, passing very near to
the idle night lilies. The ﬂowers, uncared for, droop in their
vases. Many are dead.

“She would tell it to me all like a story at ﬁrst. Then
presented it to me as a problem set. Given the variables,
which gang to kill, which product to sell. I liked it better
when it was stories. I was a hero in them, or he was.” He
stops in front of a maze. “But we’re not. And I know why.
Lilath took me to a slaughterhouse on Earth when I was
young. And I saw how they would kill the cows and then
make them into food for us to eat. Tell me: why are cows
diﬀerent from people? Cows have dreams. Cows have
aﬀection for their friends and family. If you are going to say
it is because cows are less intelligent than people, it is
acceptable to slaughter them, why is not acceptable for me
to slaughter people who are proportionately less intelligent
to me than cows are to them? And if you say it is because
people feel more, then I invite you to stab a cow and a
human in the throat and see how very similar they are.”
As he speaks, my eyes search the vase of ﬂowers, looking
for a live one.
“That’s false equivalency. Logical fallacies are beneath
you,” I say.
“You know it’s true,” he replies. I look back to him from
the ﬂowers just before he glances back. “Deep down. That’s
what I care about. Because I can talk to you and I know you
hear me. I was promised that with the Boneriders. But they
are…aberrant monkeys. From Lilath’s lips you would have
believed they were Seraphs.”
“You hated them before too,” I say.
“Did I?” he asks, sounding almost relieved.
“You thought them ridiculous.”
“They are venal. And did I hate Father?”
“No.”
“I shot him in the head.”
“You loved Father as a father should be loved, but he
didn’t love you back. That was the problem. You thought it

was your fault. There were many things that were your
fault. But not that. I think…I think what I’ve realized is that
every father makes a mess of things. It’s just a matter of if
he cared when he did it. Our father didn’t, and I think you
spotted that.”
“Then why are you…you, and why am I me?” he asks,
turning around completely.
“Because I gave up trying to please him, and you never
did. I honestly don’t think you ever cared about any of
this.” I wave to the walls around us. “With every new
endeavor, there’s always the hope that you will ﬁnd
happiness, be less lonely. Let me tell you what I’ve learned:
the moment you become Sovereign, you become loneliest
person in all the worlds, because there is no new endeavor,
no new height to which you can ascend. Whatever
loneliness is already inside you is magniﬁed, because if you
were lucky enough to have anyone understand you before,
they won’t understand you after you sit in the Morning
Chair. Only one person alive at a time knows what it means
to be Sovereign.”
He traces the lines in the marble ﬂoor with his toe as if it
were a puzzle. I glance back at the ﬂowers. There could be
one alive on the other side of the vase.
“Do you know why I did this?” he asks. “I did it because
Lilath told me it was the only way I could see you. You
would kill me if you were not at my mercy, I know. You
think I am a freak. And I am. But thank you for speaking to
me as if I weren’t. I recognize the gesture, even if it isn’t a
kindness.”
“Do you hate her?” I ask him. “Lilath.”
He replies with a slight pause and no inﬂection in his
voice. “On the day she took me to see the cows die, I had a
thought. I asked Lilath to build me an iron cow. She built
me the iron wolf instead, as I knew she would. One day
soon, I will melt her inside it.”

I forget the ﬂowers and stare at him. “Why?”
“Because she doesn’t understand irony.”
He means it, and he doesn’t sound upset, proud, or even
excited about it. “And doing that would make you feel
happy?” I ask.
“It doesn’t make me feel anything. It is just an
opportunity for novelty.”
To do that to Lilath, who gave birth to him, who breastfed
him, and woke in the middle of the night when he cried as a
baby, who trained him to walk, to speak, to read, seems in
the moment to be the cruelest act I have ever heard. My
brother was many things, but even his evil led with the
heart. This thing is just bored.
“Just like making the Republic eat itself?” I ask.
“Indeed.” He smiles, pleased. “I knew if anyone could
understand me, it would be you. I only wish Father were
here. Cruel though he may have been. So I could see this
cruelness. Look in the eye. Smell its ugly breath. To see if I
felt it.”
“Felt what?”
“Evil. What precipice of the mind could conjure anything
more terrifying than a cruel father?”
“I think,” I say slowly, “perhaps you have spent too much
childhood indoors, young man.”
He reels back, annoyed that I dare try to pull out of the
discussion with aﬀected rhetoric. In his mind it is
disrespectful. “You don’t think I’m Adrius at all, do you?” he
asks. His mood darkens. “I suppose to you this must all feel
as if you are with a voyeur.” He gestures to the puzzles. “I
am not real to you. I am an interruption. At very best, an
imposter.” His lips pull upward as his eyes narrow. “Am I
wrong?”
“Naw, kid, you’re not wrong. If Adrius were here, he
would be eating lobster as he gave this lecture on a table

containing the body of a conquered foe. If Adrius were
here, he’d have sex slaves brought to him after the battle
and fuck them on Octavia au Lune’s bed. And it would
make him so very happy to dilute the most expensive liquor
bottles with piss and then give them to his Boneriders to
share. And then, after all that, he’d tell it all to no one. His
war on the world was a joke built around a central need to
prove he didn’t yearn for the approval from the only man
who wouldn’t give it. You, on the other hand, are just a joke
built around me. A visitor to this world who doesn’t belong.
A ghost.” He looks stricken. I ﬁnish it. “And what Father
was to Adrius, I am now to you.”
He steps closer as if to confess. “It would appear so.”
Emotion leaks into his voice. “It must end in your death
then, I suppose.”
I spot the ﬂower I need. It’s moments like this I
sympathize with Darrow.
There is a patient, longer scheme available, where I earn
the clone’s trust over days, even weeks. I could ﬁx more
things then, perhaps. I could ensure the rescue of Sevro,
Pebble, and Clown. But if I wait so long, how much of the
Republic will be left by the time I am in a position to save
it? The ﬂeets will be at it again soon if they aren’t already.
Both navies were built to protect us from the Golds. The
prospect of their destruction at the hands of each other is
more urgent a calamity than the safety of my friends.
I make the same choice my husband had to make.
“It doesn’t have to be that way,” I say to the clone. “I am
not like Father, because I do care about you. Even if I don’t
love you. You killed my friends when you didn’t have to.
Lilath put that in you. What I said, it was in reaction to
that. I don’t want to be your enemy. There are things Lilath
is wrong about. Things that will jeopardize your life. For
instance, the Pandemonium Chair. Did you know Octavia
only used it twice? It is dangerous.”

“Are you trying to tempt me into asking for the codes to
the Crescent Vault?” he asks.
“No,” I say. “I’m trying to tempt you into asking about my
research with the Pandemonium Chair. How the
psychoSpike functions…”
He lifts his datapad and sends tendrils of pain racing
along my spine. “I think I have discovered it for myself.”
“Of course, but you haven’t cracked how to actually
erase the memories, have you? They’re quite diﬀerent
functions, viewing and destroying, and more than twentyfour steps to the latter.” I lean forward with a smile. He
couldn’t ﬁgure out the puzzle. “I’m sorry, rude of me to not
put in an easy little button for idiots.” He wants to know
how to do it so he can do it to me, and make me his
companion. What sort of companion, I can only guess.
He looks scolded, but walks closer. “And you would just
tell me?”
“In time, all things are possible, brother.” I pick the night
lily out from amongst the dead ﬂowers in the vase. And
hand it out to him the way Bellona knights did as they
returned to loved ones from war.
His response is a basic human response. When you’re
caught oﬀ guard and someone reaches to shake your hand
in a comfortable setting, you usually shake it. When
someone displays a deep and respectful ﬂash of cultural
esoterica that you value as well, you respond. He does
both. If he had had proper kinesthetic training by a
razormaster, he wouldn’t. After all, genius or not, he is still
only ten years old. He takes the ﬂower. But he doesn’t take
it the way I would, or the way Adrius would. He takes it like
an entitled child who spends too much time indoors.
Violently.

***VirginiaNight lilies respond well to a gentle touch. They do not

abide rough handling. That’s when their necrotic spines
come out to play. I had them made that way as my last in a
long line of redundant defenses, all of which have either
been deactivated or removed, except my bloodydamn
ﬂowers. Precisely because it is more in line with something
Atalantia would have lying around than Virginia au
Augustus.
The clone ﬂinches as several sets of glistening needles
burst from the ﬂower to pierce his thumb. He screams at
the sudden, blinding pain. The shaded toxins of the lily
trickle slowly down the tip of his thumb, spreading toward
his hand. He falls backward, staggered by the intensity of
the poison. I feel the agony as well. It seeps from my right
index ﬁnger up my arm straight to my spinal column. I
almost throw up, but I must move. I throw my body forward
oﬀ the chair to the ﬂoor near the clone’s datapad. He
dropped it the second after the needles went in. The

ﬂower’s spines have retracted. I pick it up very gently.
Flower in one hand, pad in the other, I crawl to the puzzle
wall trying to turn oﬀ the psychoSpike without getting
another dose of the spreading poison. The third puzzle at
the bottom on the left is a transponder to the escape door.
This puzzle had to be on the door for it to open and not
hidden in Lilath’s creepy suite. If I press my hand to the
wall when the puzzle is present, the door will slide up, and
I can escape. If I can just get to it.
The door to the hall explodes inward as Lilath responds
to her Emperor’s cries. She’s carrying two hatchets. She
runs toward me. I ﬁnd the right function on the datapad
and return sensation to my legs. I scramble upward and
lunge to touch the wall behind the pictures without
disturbing the ﬂower in my hands.
A jarring force hits my back. It almost feels like a punch
compared with the searing pain in my index ﬁnger. The
necrotic poison is spreading for the hand. If it gets to the
torso, I’m dead. But by the wrist I’ll be in such agony I
won’t be able to move. I slam my other hand into the wall.
The wall shoots straight upward to reveal a metal chute at
waist height. I duck and drop the ﬂower just as Lilath tries
to chop my head oﬀ from behind. I try to spin-kick her legs,
but she steps over the kick and delivers a slash downward.
I catch it on my left forearm. The bone breaks so abruptly
that it pierces the skin. I stumble back into the wall beside
the chute and reach for the ﬂower with my poisoned hand.
Lilath is brutal and eﬀective. She chops me in the left
shoulder, takes oﬀ my right ear, then buries a crushing
blow in the right side of my ribcage. The bones break, and
something inside me ruptures. I crumple downward just
close enough to the ﬂower. Lilath glances back at her
Emperor, knowing I’m mortally wounded, but unable to
detect why he’s screaming. Almost blind with pain, I fumble
for the ﬂower with my poisoned hand. Another dose of

poison goes through two more of my ﬁngers. My vision
pulses and I hurl the ﬂower up at Lilath’s face. It’s the only
part of her not covered with armor.
I don’t see where it hits her. I just hear her screaming.
She stumbles away, almost dropping her hatchet.
Something clanks on the wall behind where I stand. It’s
connected to me. I reach backward and ﬁnd metal. I pull on
it till I feel pressure release in my back. It’s one of Lilath’s
hatchets. I look at her, and I stumble from the pain and loss
of blood as I wind up to throw it at her. She’s hunched
beside the clone. There’s a ripping sound. And she stands
up with a shudder. It was her nose the needles got. And she
didn’t take any chances with how much of her nose she cut
oﬀ. She turns back to me and pulls another hatchet from
the sheath on her thigh to join the bloody one she already
has.
I throw my hatchet at her.
She doesn’t bother dodging. It just sparks oﬀ her armor. I
lose faith in the ﬁght and I dive into the escape hole to
plunge downward. The ride is a minute almost straight
down through darkness. The tunnels go almost as deep as
the Dragonmaw bunker. The tube levels oﬀ and deposits me
on a soft landing pad, in a small room. It is one of the
Citadel’s secondary fallback bunkers. There are four tubes
that can access it. I pull a lever to close all four.
They might have found everything else in my oﬀice, but
not this. I’m going to pass out from blood loss soon. I rush
past the weapons cases to the medical station. Arm broken,
I clumsily grab the laser saw ﬁrst. The blue line of energy
comes to life. Without hesitating, I slice oﬀ my index ﬁnger
at the bottom joint. The pain of the amputation and
cauterization are meager compared with that of the lily’s
toxins. I leave the gouge where my ear used to be weeping
blood. The ﬂow has already diminished, and will stop soon
from coagulation. I take oﬀ the middle ﬁnger at the top

joint, and just the tip of the ring ﬁnger. I discard the laser
cutter and reach for the cauterizing gun. No time for
anything pretty. Even with it my internal organs will likely
keep bleeding in a rupture. I moan over the medical table
in pain as the gun melts closed the wound on my right side.
Then I seal the other ones I can reach.
I thought I would face a dire choice. To save Sevro and
my friends, or to save myself. Now I realize, there is no
choice. If I don’t get out, I will die, and so will the ﬂeet in
orbit. I have to get out.
I take three shots of stims to stay awake, then pump
blood from the med station’s supply into myself as I sit
woozily in front of the communications terminal. It is
located beside the ejection chute. The terminal is already in
Black Cathedral protocol. Someone else must’ve called it.
Kavax? Holiday?
The hidden network immediately connects me to the
bridge of the Reynard, Kavax’s ﬂagship. He turns to see me
on his displays. Sophocles tilts his head toward the camera.
“Kavax. I am in the small chapel.” The man’s eyes widen.
Flashes from battle wash over his face. “I have internal
bleeding in the kidneys and likely the liver. Left arm is
broken, right hand losing function. Sevro, Clown, and
Pebble are also prisoners in the Sunhall. How many clergy
in the building?”
“Four, but they are in Moonhall and connecting tunnels
are compromised.”
“I won’t be able to go to them,” I say looking down at my
wound.
“Do you know where the prisoners are located?”
“No.”
“Can you ﬁnd out?” he asks.
“Giving you access to internal cameras still connected to
the systems,” I say. “Kavax, make the call. I’ll go back for

them if you think I can make it.” He and his techs sort the
feeds for a few moments to ﬁnd the ones I sent. As they do
I examine the defense systems I had installed in the
Citadel. Nearly all of them are dark. Lilath and the clone
peeled my fortress apart well. Oddly, the escape and transit
systems are the only systems running. Likely so the clone
and the Boneriders could move about behind the scenes
while they pulled the strings of their puppet government.
Kavax is done appraising the information I sent.
“Where are they?” I ask.
“Let me see your wounds.”
I turn them toward the camera. “Eject,” he says. “We
have teams on the ground, ready to move at exit.” Eject.
My heart wants to be the person who risks it for Sevro in
the face of certain death. My head can’t decide. But in this
situation, the person on his end of the line is the boss.
Kavax has operational control. I look emptily at the ejection
tube.
Is this what it comes down to? Leaving the best of my
friends in the clutches of a ghost from my past? I suppose
so. Sevro was right. I am not Mustang any longer. I am the
Sovereign.
I crank open the ejection hatch, crying out from the pain
as I use my broken arm. I feel very selﬁsh as I crawl
through the aperture into a small padded compartment
large enough to ﬁt ten.
I close the hatch behind me and the lights in the
compartment and in the concrete tunnel glow. Electricity
channels through the two metal rails on either side of the
tunnel, and the compartment shoots forward.
It carries me away from not only Sevro, Clown, and
Pebble. It carries me away from the place Daxo died and
the people who killed him. It takes me away from ten years
of work in a place I had always feared. I had dreamed of

one day leaving the Citadel of Light behind, perhaps ousted
from oﬀice in a hard-fought election against a worthy
successor, or after my relevance had worn out. I once
hoped it would be Dancer who took it on next. Never did I
imagine my last time leaving the Citadel would be like this.
As the compartment races along the forty-kilometer tunnel,
I make myself a promise that this will be the second-to-last
time I leave the Citadel. I will return to ﬁnish this, and then
I will never see this place again.
It feels like a dream when the compartment slows to a
stop. The hatch pops open above my head and I emerge.
Large men in armor stand waiting for me. But then their
riﬂes rise, and I see the Vox upside-down pyramid on their
armor.
I stand there with my hands in the air, feeling myself
fading.
Gunﬁre comes from the hall, and before the men can turn
around, the wall behind them erupts. High-powered rounds
mow them down in seconds. A team of heavily armed
Lionguard and Pegasus Legion soldiers burst in from the
hall hunched over their weapons. The battered helmet of a
Pegasus centurion retracts to reveal Holiday ti Nakamura.
“Lie down, ma’am,” she barks. Two of her men expand a
peculiar stretcher with two large pods on each end. Holiday
forces me down onto it. I make no arguments. I can barely
walk. “Reynard, this is Gray Rock. I have Gold Horse. We
are on the move.” The stretcher locks me in place. I see
what the pods are for when an intense pulseField throbs
between them with a thrmmmm.
Two soldiers carry the stretcher as Holiday leads the
squad out of the room. Gunﬁre echoes through the halls.
Gunship engines roar outside as we ascend the bunker via
the stairs. Dozens of Vox legionnaires lie dead. More of
Holiday’s lurcher squads join us. They look like a troop of

evil gargoyles as they push from the bunker in force out
into the light of day.
We’re in one of my brother’s craters. Now I see why
Kavax didn’t send in men through the tunnel earlier. It’s in
the center of a Vox mobile infantry legion headquarters.
Lionguard and Pegasus Legion gunships lay waste to the
camp. Holiday leads the special forces troopers straight
into the back of a waiting assault transport. Its guns rattle
as we lift oﬀ as soon as I’m aboard. Fifty Pegasus troopers
activate their boots and ﬂy close behind the transport as
the door seals.
The war becomes a distant rumble.
A medical team waiting in the assault shuttle rushes to
me. Before I can object, they sedate me. I feel our escape
from atmosphere distantly through the bumps that
resonate through the deck. When I go weightless, I know
we have made it to space. When the shuttle wheezes to a
stop and clunks down on a deck, I know I have made it to
the Reynard. I close my eyes and succumb to the loss of
blood.
—
I wake to ﬁnd Darrow’s mother asleep at my bedside with
Sophocles in her arms. The ship is quiet. It seems they
disengaged with the Vox ﬂeet. Monitors above me track my
vitals. I am in the Reynard’s medical bay. Sophocles wakes
up ﬁrst and gives a little yip and jumps on my bed. I wince
as pain races through my right side from my wound.
“Stupid animal!” Deanna says, swatting it away. She
wipes sleep from her eyes and looks down on me with such
protective love that I start to cry. Not for myself. But for
her, for the pain I see in her eyes, and all the pain she must
have felt these last days for her son, for her grandson, for
Sevro, for me. And then I cry for Daxo and Theodora, and

the friends I left behind with the monster. She cradles me
as I do, humming in my ear as I have always wished my
mother had done for me.
—
Hours later, when I’ve worked up the strength, Kavax and
Niobe come to see me. I worry for a moment that
Nakamura was too ashamed to come, but then Deanna
drags her inside. Holiday can barely meet my eyes for the
shame of letting me be captured. It wasn’t her fault. I was
thoroughly undone. I’d weep again to Kavax and Niobe for
Daxo, but all that needs to wait.
“Has Heliopolis fallen?” I ask.
“Not yet,” Kavax says. “But our agents say it only has
days left.”
“Darrow?” I ask.
“We don’t know,” Niobe says.
“Pax?”
Kavax can’t answer, so Niobe does. “Ephraim ti Horn
abducted them from the Obsidian. Their whereabouts are
currently unknown.”
“Abducted them? Again?”
“We don’t know why. But it occurred immediately after
the Pandora was hit. Victra is missing. Her escape shuttle
was found, but the ﬁrst rescue team was shot down
crossing Obsidian airspace. Her legions were grounded on
the orders of the ArchGovernor, for fear they would initiate
a war with Seﬁ’s Obsidian.”
I lean forward in hope. “Rollo survived then.” He’s a
good man. Stalwart. Tough. Loyal. And he was a Son of
Ares.
“No,” Holiday says. “They assassinated him in Agea.” I
sink into the bed. “Then it’s Vorol?” They shake their heads.

“They got him too? Then who took the post?”
“Some idiot,” Deanna says.
“Kieran,”
Kavax
answers
heavily.
“Temporary
appointment by Mars’s regional governors.”
Darrow’s brother. I sent him to Mars with Niobe to
negotiate with the Obsidian. I’m hopelessly behind. Wait,
no, Publius and Zan mentioned this.
“Who assaulted the ship?”
“It looks like Seﬁ,” Kavax says. I just blink at him. “I
never thought we should have trusted that mongrel breed.
First the Coppers, then the crows.” Looking up at them, I
just realize they think Publius did all this. I don’t have time
to explain. Calming her husband, Niobe shows me the
current disposition of ships in the system. Atalantia is still
massed at Mercury, with a smaller ﬂeet at Venus. Most of
the Republic battleships are here around Luna, while the
Ecliptic Guard gathers over Mars.
“Is this ﬂeet strong enough to break through Ash Armada
over Mercury?” I ask Kavax.
“Yes,” Kavax says.
“No,” Niobe corrects. “We cannot defeat them without
Ecliptic Guard or the Vox ﬂeet joining us. We might be able
to break through as is, but to land and load under ﬁre…”
She stiﬀens. “A miracle could occur, or it could be the
greatest disaster of the war.”
“We have to try,” Kavax says. “Darrow would for us.”
Deanna heads to the door. “Deanna, stay,” I say.
“No,” she says gruﬄy. “Maybe I can one day forgive you
for doin’ what needs doin’. But I can’t give you permission
to abandon my boy.” She steps out. Holiday still has not
weighed in.
“Virginia, there’s something else you need to know,”
Niobe says. “The Rim has made a secret alliance with the
Core.” It can’t get any worse. Fresh ships, fresh legions of

enemies, thrown into the fray at the exact moment they
could break our backs. “They are currently unaware we
have this intel. We don’t know where they will strike, but
we can assume it will be decisive.” She looks at her
husband. “Mercury is in far orbit. I think they will hit us as
we cross near the sun, when our sensors are distorted.”
“No,” Kavax says, disagreeing again. “They will hit Mars.
Take out the Phobos Dockyards. Eye for an eye.”
“And that is why we should return to Mars,” Niobe says.
“Kavax knows better the Rim, and I know better Atalantia.
Mars cannot fall.”
“No one has suggested rescuing Sevro,” I say.
“We sent three teams in through the tunnel after we
evacked you. We lost contact with them ten minutes later.”
Niobe steps toward the bed. “Virginia, we have four
operatives still in the building under Moonhall. They are
Sevro’s best chance. But if we try to hammer our way in
now—”
Massacre, and the clone kills my friends.
“We can’t stay here,” Niobe says. “The Vox ﬂeet wants a
ﬁght. They’re still pursuing and we’re a million klicks away
from Luna.”
“Surely Publius can be reasoned with,” Kavax says to me.
“To do all this he might have used the mob, but he can be
rational. If we ﬁght his ﬂeet, no matter who loses, Gold
wins.”
It’s almost too much to bear. “What do you think,
Holiday?” I ask.
Finally, she meets my eyes. “Retreat is the only option,
ma’am. We must regroup on Mars.” If we go, that leaves
Earth alone with the Vox, and the swelling Gold host. It will
fall unless the clone sees it is in his interest to try to defend
it with his Lunese ﬂeet. But Mars can be defended, without
help from Luna. Earth cannot.

“Then we go to Mars,” I say.
Though I promised my husband I would come for him, I
cannot. It is a betrayal that will haunt me to the grave.
Kavax sags in exhaustion. He sees me notice and ﬁnally
seems to see the scores of wounds the mob gave me on my
exposed arms, neck, and legs. I had forgotten them. The
tears gather in his eyes as he leans over the bed. “All hope
is not lost,” he whispers to me. I fail to see how he can
believe that. He kisses my forehead. “I sent a man to
Mercury to bring Darrow home if Heliopolis falls.”
“Who?” I ask.
“The same man who told us the Rim was coming.”

***DarrowGlirastes the Master Maker stands before his crudest

creation.
The starboard hangar of the Morning Star no longer
exists. Harnassus’s engineering corps have carved through
the midsection of the ship to create enough room to house
the Spirit of Faran, our fastest and youngest torchShip. The
insides of the Faran have been almost entirely gutted to
make room for the most powerful electromagnetic pulse
weapon assembled in all the campaigns of the war. It is not
a new device on the surface, but it is the nature of war to
inspire evolution.
In his purple robes, Glirastes resembles an evil
necromancer from one of Pax’s storybooks. His hands labor
with some Byzantine contraption designed for his fourteen
ﬁngers. It measures arcane readouts, the meaning of which
only my wife and Harnassus’s astrophysicists could ever
hope to understand. Old researchers with large rheumy
eyes check their own notations and murmur to one another,

while the younger breed crouch in isolation, their cranial
implants ﬂickering as they attempt to keep pace with the
Orange idol.
As the EMP ﬁnishes its eighteenth preliminary test, I
survey the length of the device, its nest of wave-shaped
coils, each three times as thick around as a man, its blue
lights and vacuum tubes. A steady whoomph, whoomph
comes from the oversized helium reactor at the aft of the
ship.
The lights dim.
Glirastes clicks his tongue at his servant, who bends to
scratch his inner calf. Mid-scratch, he screams at a welder
for silence. The thickset Red spits tobacco juice into the
can tied to his neck by a string, turns oﬀ his torch, and
hangs from the ceiling on his line. The engineers and
construction teams hold their collective breath, not so
much in anticipation of the result, but for fear of the
Maker’s monstrous temper.
Green integers dance across his face as his eyes dart
through the report, punctuating it with murmurs of
“interesting,” “perﬁdious instantaneous amplitude,” “shit
shit indecorous shit,” and more esoteric Mercurian
profanities.
“Do we have a problem, Glirastes?” I ask. Glirastes sighs
as if in prayer to give himself patience.
“Problem? You ask if we have a problem?” The folds of
his neck twist red as he cranes his head to glare at me like
a frazzled yet contemptuous owl. “Young man, you
bamboozled me into helping you activate the Storm Gods
under the pretense that you would use them only in a
limited capacity, and instead turned a city I love into a coral
reef. Any compassion I had for your cause has been
drowned by the encroaching sea. Yet if I do not help you
again, as you so eloquently and brutally elucidated when
you browbeat me into helping you on this fool’s errand to

rid you from my planet, the city of my birth will resemble
little else in the known universe except the center of a Gtype main-sequence star. The fact that I ﬁnd catharsis in
profanity while endeavoring to ﬁt three years’ worth of
research into three weeks of practical application does not
reﬂect upon my enthusiasm for the work, which is little, nor
the necessity, which is great. So, yes, we have a problem,
but the particular nature of my frustration is isolated to a
conundrum which you have neither the patience nor the
temperament nor cognitive ability to understand.” He turns
the data on its side, scrolls through it again. “Ah,” he says.
“Never mind. I solved it.” He twirls his ﬁnger. “You, why
did you stop welding? Get back to work! Must I do
everything?”
Glirastes stalks out of the Spirit and heads for his
makeshift oﬀice on the ﬂoor of the hangar. “You’re all
bloody saints,” I say to the welders.
“Aww, sir!” one croons.
“Can I have a kiss?” asks another.
“Back to work!” Harnassus shouts. “We’re not payin’ by
the hour.”
We ﬁnd Glirastes sighing as he slumps into his Thinking
Chair, a queer perch made from a single ﬂowing branch of
a sunblossom tree.
“I know it is beneath you,” Harnassus says as Glirastes’s
servant pours his master a glass of port. “But would you
mind explaining the device to the infantry, Master Maker?
It would do them some comfort to know they’re not trusting
their lives to magic.”
Glirastes surveys the commanders I brought with me.
“No. That sounds tiresome.”
He puts his feet on a silk stool and sighs as his servant
removes his purple slippers and massages his heels with
rose oil. Harnassus looks six seconds away from clouting

Glirastes on the ears. He has little patience for snobs. I’ve
more experience with the breed.
“It’s just an EMP. What’s so complicated about scaling it
up?” I say, and wait for the explosion.
“Just an EMP?” Glirastes repeats as if reading his own
obituary aloud. “Am I just an ambulating mammal?” His
eyes scour me. “Did you not retain anything of your
curriculum from the Academy aside from astral
belligerency?”
“I retained enough, apparently.”
The infantry commanders chuckle.
Glirastes sighs in annoyance and regards Thraxa and my
infantry commanders with distaste, oﬀended by the
sunburnt visages and thick chests of hardier mammals than
he, and retreats to intellectual bullying. I track what he
says, because I’m married to a woman who’d be insulted if
I couldn’t.
“Weaponized transient electromagnetic disturbances
have tenaciously sharp leading wave edges, escalating
precipitously to their maximum level before decaying
slowly.
Imagine
a
double
exponential
curve.
Problematically, the shielding made by the Venusian
Dockyards is designed to recognize this sort of blunt
belligerency”—he ﬁxes me with a glare—“and provide
countermeasures for Atalantia’s ﬂeet. Consequently, I have
decided to use a benign damped sine wave to create a
coupling between the source and the victim equipment.
Usually this is a by-product of a weaponized EMP, but the
genius here is that instead of diminishing within the double
exponential envelope, the sine wave wavelengths will
increase. However, considering the distance required, the
energy demand will be staggering. Creating a more
eﬀicient and staggered energy ignition is profoundly
diﬀicult absent a nuclear explosion, and if I do not perfect
it you will all die in the sky.” He eyes me again. “Now that I

have satisﬁed the curiosity of your apes, the zoo is closed.”
He closes his eyes. “Begone lest you have an advanced
degree or care to replace Exeter in massaging my feet.”
“I’ll take his spot if you like, Master Maker,” Thraxa says
with a smile. She holds up her hands. “I know they look like
elephant feet, but they’re tender to the right sort.”
Glirastes makes a face of distaste. “Such a bloodline,
squandered on martial absurdity. You’ve genius in your line,
woman. Your brother was the mind of a generation, and
your father…” He sighs. “You waste your time playing
soldier.”
“So that’s a pass?”
“Pfah.” He shoots Harnassus a look. “Don’t forget my
breakfast tomorrow. I can’t work without sardines;
tomorrow is a Tuesday, after all.”
As my infantry commanders ﬁle out muttering their
concerns to one another, Harnassus follows me and Thraxa
out of the Star’s hangar. “What do you think?” I ask him.
“He’s pigheaded, cruel, eccentric, ﬁckle, and ten times as
demanding as my ﬁrst wife. But he’s a genius.”
“Was,” Thraxa says. “Riches made him slow.” She glares
back at the man. “Little more than a lapdog to whoever
holds Mercury.”
“You thinking he’ll betray us?” I ask.
“I’m thinking we should endeavor to remind him
Atalantia is scared of us.”
“What do you have against him?” I ask.
“First oﬀ, his designs are rubbish. Robbing the Egyptians
blind. And the bastard cozied up to the slavers, then to us.
He’s a bloodﬂy. Invertebrate. Permission to pop him when
we evac.”
“Denied, psycho,” Harnassus says.
“Wasn’t asking you.”

“He’s my second-in-command, Thraxa. When I don’t
speak, he speaks for me,” I remind her.
“Uh-huh. But you’re speaking.”
“You’re not killing the Master Maker.”
She shrugs. “Sure.”
“Where were we?” I ask Harnassus. “Can we even tell if
he’s full of shit? If he leaves us hanging up there, we’re all
dead.”
“He’s spineless,” Thraxa moans. “He wouldn’t dare cross
us.”
“Probably right.” Harnassus grimaces. “See, I’m not the
sharpest on magnetism or waveform theory. My focus was
practical mechanics. But I’ve got two hundred brains with a
thousand degrees between them going step for step with
him. He’s smarter than each of them in theory, but not all
of them together. If he’s playing games, they’ll red-ﬂag it.
Long as we keep him happy, seems he’ll do what we need
him to do.”
“That’s the trick, isn’t it?” I say.
“You want the genius happy, we need sardines,”
Harnassus says.
“Sardines?”
“He says he gets headaches without sardines for
breakfast on Tuesdays. Tomorrow is Tuesday and he’s fresh
out.”
“You have to be joking,” I say for Thraxa.
“I don’t damn well know. This man’s been pissing into
crystal decanters since he was a teenager. So far, no luck. If
the Heliopolitan Silvers here have sardines, they’re denying
it. We could raid their kitchens, but we’re on unsteady
footing as it is.”
“Where’s Sevro when you need him?” I mutter.
Harnassus raises an eyebrow in query.

“What? You think he just always smells like ﬁsh?” Thraxa
asks.
“I think he smells like wet dog, personally,” I reply.
“Well, it depends if it’s raining or not.”
“Gods, the jungles were rough. You remember that
trench foot he had?”
“Thought we’d have to amputate,” Thraxa says.
“Yeah, you tried.”
“Then he woke up. Heh. That was funny.”
Harnassus shakes his head. “This is not the conversation
I thought I would have when the Reaper of Mars came to
North Africa to make me a Praetor. I thought it’d be all ﬁre
and guts and devilish mayhem. Not prepubescent humor.
You should check Sevro’s pantry. All sorts of illicit goods
there, so I hear.”
“Why don’t you check it?” I ask.
“I won’t send any of my men in there.”
I sigh and motion Rhonna over from my bodyguards. “Go
see if there’s any sardines in Imperator Barca’s stateroom.”
She goes white as a corpse. “Uh, isn’t that a task for
support?”
“Not you too.”
“It’s just…well, there’s booby traps, ain’t there?
Alexandar once tried to steal whiskey. Came back shaking
like a softfoot on their ﬁrst aerial drop.”
“Fine.” My bodyguards all ﬁnd something very
interesting in the contours of the deck. “Superstitious
idiots. I’ll get the bloodydamn sardines.”
—
Ten minutes later I’m shrieking like a goat on the ﬂoor just
inside Sevro’s room as a medicus pulls needles from my

face, chest, and ass. Incredible pain races through my body
as my hands and feet turn purple and start to swell
uncontrollably.
A ﬂat voice drawls from a hologram of Sevro’s face.
“Don’t touch my shit. Don’t touch my shit. Don’t touch
my shit.”
“It’s prime, sir,” the Yellow says to me as she injects me
with antivenom. “It’s prime. The pain will subside in a
minute. Swelling should start to go down now. Sadly, the
color will remain.” She looks up at Sevro’s hologram. “I’ll…
um…wait outside…in case you need me.”
“Told you,” Rhonna says from the door.
“Slag oﬀ.” When my hands have almost returned to their
normal size and feeling has returned to my feet, I stagger
up and turn oﬀ the hologram. A hidden needle pricks my
ﬁnger. Shit.
“Badass-class DNA detected,” a sexy voice says. Nothing
leaps at me from the darkness. “Proﬁle match for: Darrow
of Lykos. Best Friend. Also known as: Reaper, Boss, Howler
One, Apex Asshole, Brother, Mustang’s Bitch. Second-class
clearance granted. Welcome. I apologize for warning shots.
Master has been notiﬁed of your skulking. Stickyﬁnger
traps deactivated. Help yourself to a glass of scotch, Best
Friend. Take in some music, Reaper. Admire the trophies
from the decimated enemies of the noble Howlers, Boss.
Enjoy the extensive pornography library, Howler One. Relax
in the sauna, Apex Asshole. It has no traps. But above all
else, steal nothing, and enjoy your stay in…”
“Sevro’s Palace,” Sevro’s voice adds very seriously.
“Second class?” I ask.
“Yes. Master says you know why.”
I look back to Rhonna at the door. “Nope,” Rhonna says,
and bugs out. Screwface makes a motion of standing guard
and ducks into the hall. “Pixie,” I mutter, and shut the door.

The suite is large, comprised of half a dozen rooms ﬁlled
with his prizes. I’ve avoided this place since arriving on
Mercury. To be here is to be reminded of how we parted.
The place is too much like my friend. Mugs of evaporated
whiskey sit in ranks atop banners of fallen warlords he’s
trampled. Candy wrappers ﬁll the eyeholes of solid gold
skulls taken from Magnus’s ﬂoating palace in Africa. The
scepter I gave Adrius in Attica sits on the couch for Sevro
to use as a back-scratcher. Only one place is spared the
chaos strewn throughout the suite.
My wife once told me a man’s soul can be seen in the
room he keeps the cleanest. I asked her what room is my
soul. She tapped my razor.
Sevro’s soul is his armory, but for a diﬀerent reason.
One wall is for use. Three suits of Sevro’s wolf armor
hang central on the longest wall, surrounded by a shrine of
knives. Tickler, his favorite, is missing. Replacement razors
gleam with oil. Several from the gens Falthe are there, as is
the Minotaur’s with its horned pommel. I gave it to Sevro
as a gift when his youngest was born. He always coveted it,
especially after Seﬁ won Aja’s oﬀ him in a game of “who
gets the most kills.” PulseFists and more esoteric weapons
ﬁll the rest of the shelves.
One wall is for memories. One of Ragnar’s razors. Weed’s
old pipe. Quinn’s Howler cloak. The bloody cape Octavia au
Lune wore the day I killed her. Highest on the wall, in a
place of honor, is the slingBlade I used at the Institute. I
look at it for a long time before I take it down. It is far
heavier than my razor and far smaller than I remember. I
swing it till it makes a swish swish. I laughed at him when I
saw it there the ﬁrst time, laughed even harder when I
found out how much trouble he went through to track it
down. But I think I skipped past the part that mattered—
how much the blade meant to him. With his father always
away, always secretive and frightened to show his love, that

blade gave Sevro something to follow. Something to
dedicate his life to. Until he found something else.
The last wall is for his family. Holos of his girls ﬂoat
above coin-sized projectors, so that it seems like a hundred
reveries ﬁll the shelves. They’ve danced here in the
darkness without anyone to see them for months. There are
little bracelets and tokens, ink footprints and palm
paintings. An emerald cape Victra gave to him when we
sailed for Earth. A golden unicorn ﬁgurine. And in the
center of it all: his father’s blood-red Ares armor with its
spiked crescent helmet.
The bench where he would dress for battle faces this
wall.
The armor looks so odd surrounded by the domesticity.
But it is easy for me to forget that Sevro’s life was always
war, because his father waged it instead of raising him.
After I saw how Lorn’s sons were consumed by his
vocation, and theirs continue to be consumed, I tried to
separate war and family, like Fitchner. I thought they were
two worlds that should never meet. Sevro knew what I did
not. What it is like to be raised by a warlord, by a
distracted man. And he knew that our world is one where
everything collides. He didn’t close his mind to his family
before battle, because he knew they did not make him
weaker, they made him stronger than he was by himself. I
feel the key underneath my jacket.
Even though I will never be able to agree with his
decision to return to Luna instead of Mercury, I understand
it. He even said it to me, though I did not want to hear it at
the time. He would not make the same mistakes as his
father. If I ever see him again, I will ask that he forgive me
asking him to make that impossible choice. And if I see my
boy again, if I see my wife, I will not close myself oﬀ to
them. I will be the father and husband they deserve.

***LysanderI am one of the tortured.

The Gorgons, a handsome Gold woman with a pert nose
and a gecko of a Gray, pour alcohol over my burn on the
ﬁrst day. Just getting acquainted, they say as I scream.
They inject something into my neck, and time does indeed
slow down. The agony sustains itself for what feels like a
week. Then it is gone, and the pain of my burn is
omnipotent once more.
The Gorgons ask about the Bellona blade they found on
me, about my name, but if I give it to them, then what will
they do with it? The Fear Knight is away, so it seems. Would
they contact the Annihilo? Would Ajax intercept it and send
a killsquad here to ﬁnish what he started and Seneca left
incomplete?
I need the Fear Knight to return. I need his direct
authority.
My stomach feels inside out it’s so hungry. My hair has
begun to fall out from radiation sickness. Soon all of us are

bald. All of us are nauseous. Our bodies are naturally
resistant to radiation, but with it ﬂoating in continuously
from the Ladon, our DNA unwinds bit by bit. Soon the
symptoms will worsen, the Elysian Knights and I talk
intermittently as the days ebb and ﬂow. I look for some sign
of insanity in them to explain their allegiance to Darrow
and the betrayal of their own Color, but I detect none
except for the zealotry in Alexandar and Drusilla. The rest
seem only to be here because House Arcos, their patron,
joined years ago. Drusilla speaks of the Dream of
Persephone. Of helping the people, as if all lowColors were
paupers and slaves before the Rising.
It’s a laugh. I’ve met Reds and Browns happier than most
Golds I know, and all of them with better lives than the
Grays who fed our military machine. But Grays never broke
under the hardship. Of all the Colors, they’ve remained the
most loyal to the Society.
Some time in the morning, on what may be my fourth day
with them, Ignacius and Drusilla are taken away. Ignacius
is returned ﬁrst, sheet white and holding three stumps
where there used to be ﬁngers. When Drusilla returns, she
says nothing as she sobs into the stone.
Any belief that I am a plant amongst the Arcosians
disappears. The torture binds me to their pack, as I
supposed it would. Conversation becomes scarce. Slowly,
Alexandar draws in on himself, becoming dour and
hopeless. It is all Drusilla can do to keep him drinking
water and eating their gruel.
My scheme begins to seem so foolish. There is nothing to
be gained out of the misunderstanding that brought me
here. I will die here, or I will risk telling my captors who I
am, and wait at their mercy for my enemies to decide my
fate.
I’ve resolved to tell them when I am strung up on the
chains for the ﬁfth time. The time-dilation drug is too much

to bear, and even the Mind’s Eye cannot spare me from its
rigors. But Pert and Gecko, as I’ve taken to calling my
torturers, disappear once I’m hoisted up. The cavern is dim
and unadorned. Stalactites drip water into a shallow pool.
Beside that is a chest full of torture devices. I hear
footsteps behind me. A man breathing. “Can you walk?” he
asks, his accent more Lunese than Ionian. I nod. A magkey
unlatches the lock on my manacles. “Follow me.”
I follow the man out of the cavern to a main tunnel. To
the left, past the prisoners’ cavern, come the faint sounds
of laughter and cooking. He leads me right into deeper
tunnels until we come to a small cavern.
It is his personal chamber. A thin thermafoam mattress
with a ﬁeld blanket serves as his bed. A small solar stove
sits in a nook carved into the wall along with several
weapons and a long-range com. A thin black hasta hangs on
the wall beside a ﬁlthy wolfpelt. A second nook is home to
several dozen ﬁgurines carved from disparate stones.
Beside it is a map of what looks like a cave system. I join
him to sit on two small pads facing each other.
Atlas au Raa is a vaguely alien man. It has been years
since I’ve seen him in the ﬂesh. After the death of my
parents, he was sent to the Rim to harry the Ascomanni in
the Kuiper. Whatever he did to displease my grandmother
must have been grave. In his absence, she gifted his oﬀice
to another.
I am struck by how soulful he now seems. Was it the
distant dark that did it? Or was it the war he returned to
ﬁnd raging in his absence?
Behind the sunburnt eyelids lurks an intense intellectual
presence. He is masculine like his son Ajax, but nowhere
near as thick. He is taller and leaner than his brother,
Romulus, but less dramatic in posture. His eyes are wider
and a clearer gold. A scar encircles his neck where his

throat was once cut ear to ear. His long hair is black shot
with gold and held back in a ponytail.
I probe deeper with the Mind’s Eye.
Forty-nine years of age. Left-handed. Limp originating
from the left knee. Multiple hidden knives in his mothcolored light armor. Lack of ego projection, indicating
absence of insecurity in body and deeds. Sociopathy?
Delusions of heroism? No. That’s usually supported by zeal.
Why so distant? Extremely lonely? Tired? Bored?
Distracted? Absent in his personal presentation is the
theatricality of his public work. Which suggests a
sophisticated system of operation, likely supported by the
books in his library, and perhaps a personal philosophical
treatise. This is a philosopher-torturer with the practical
detachment of a pig butcher.
“Stop that,” he says. “Unless you want me to do it back.”
I go still.
Grandmother said I was her only pupil. Could this be why
Apollonius wants it so bad? He knows Atlas is yet beyond
him?
The man’s cold eyes search the burn on my face and
continue to assess without yet coming to a conclusion. So
he is humble too, or at least experienced enough to have
been wrong more than once before. “Salve, au Lune,” he
says in formal highLingo.
“Salve, au Raa,” I reply.
“How did my brother die?” he asks, abandoning the argot
before it becomes laborious. “Of course I have been told,
but I hear you saw it with your own eyes.”
“He walked to the Dragon Tomb. He died several steps
short.”
He is quiet for a full minute.
“All men who live for their ancestors do. How long did he
talk before he walked?”

“Too long.”
He chuckles. “Romulus to the end. I hear my niece and
nephew are on the Annihilo to talk alliance.”
“Diomedes is. Seraphina is in the desert.”
He doesn’t ﬂinch. “Dead?”
“Yes. Atalantia demanded a Raa participate.”
“Did you see her corpse?”
“I saw her ripped in half by a rail slug. What remained
was buried in the sand.”
“Shadows and dust,” he murmurs without irony.
“No grief? No laugh for the dead traitor?”
“She did not betray the Society. My father and brother
did. I held no malice for Seraphina. I would have liked to
have known my kin.” He sighs and takes the Bellona razor
from a pouch on his thigh and lays it between us. “This, on
the other hand, is ﬁlthy with the blood of Aja and Octavia.”
“I do not believe a man like you should ask anyone to
explain themselves.”
“Ah. That’s right. You’ve seen one of my forests. I’m sure
you have an opinion. The Two Hundred had many at ﬁrst.
None to my face, of course. They prefer smiles and
innuendo.”
“I remember you used to make my father laugh,” I say.
His eyes soften. “Do you?”
“I wonder if he would laugh at your forests.”
“No,” he surprises me by saying. “Brutus would call me a
human stain. Anastasia would use far gentler a vocabulary.
I’m sure you remember her bleeding heart.”
“No, as a matter of fact.”
He searches my face, as if trying to detect a lie. “She
would say I am making more enemies with every man I
impale. That is why I impale Martians, not Mercurians.”

“To create dissonance and demarcation between
interloper and loyal subject?” I reply pedantically.
“So we’ve read some of the same books, I see. You want
to play this game? Very well. I’ve only barbarians for
company out here. How many lives did you end in the Iron
Rain? Don’t you have a killcount to mark on your
breastplate?”
“It is impossible to reckon. Between ten and a hundred.”
“Do you feel their deaths acutely?”
“Vaguely.”
“There it is.” He leans back. “Distance has sanitized war
nearly as much as Stoneside’s fucking ramblings. It has
made it easy…romantic. I have no interest in sanitization
nor romance. I apply scientiﬁc methods to produce
psychological trauma in our enemies in order to create
psychological casualties. To end their willingness to ﬁght
and shorten this war. That is my purpose.”
There’s a resentment in him, a hostility that seems
intensely personal.
I don’t recall knowing him well enough to wound him. Or
does he already know of Ajax’s betrayal?
“Enough digression. Why would you tell my men you are
this Cato au Vitruvius? Did it amuse you?”
“Amuse me? What sort of nature do you think I possess?”
“A nature which is the product of your grandmother. The
same nature she imparted to all her students. Answer the
question.”
So that’s who the anger is for. The woman who gave him
this role?
“I didn’t trust your men,” I say. “Ajax tried to assassinate
me…twice.” By his expression, I see this is not news. “I
could not risk revealing my identity to anyone but you, for
fear of him completing the task.”

“And you think I am trustworthy?” he asks.
“You were my father’s best friend.”
“I am also Ajax’s father.” He picks at his cuticles. “Do you
mean to kill my son?”
“No.”
He doesn’t believe me. “Do you even know why Ajax tried
to kill you?”
“It goes back to childhood—”
He laughs. “It does indeed. She used to groom the both
of you.” He leans forward. “Ajax is fucking Atalantia.” At
ﬁrst I thought I misheard. But it begins to makes sense.
Ajax’s quiet when Atalantia kissed me. His territorial
marking. His fear that I would replace him at his aunt’s
side. “You didn’t know. Few do. She took my son as a…
paramour before he turned sixteen. She would reward him
for the heads of Gold blood traitors with sexual favors.”
“Did Magnus know?”
“Of his daughter’s depravity? Yes. Of its deeper depths
and my son’s sexual enslavement to his remaining
daughter?” He shrugs. “Magnus always had a selective
conscience, especially with precious Atalantia.”
“And you just…let it happen?”
“Ajax may have my DNA, but I was oﬀ ﬁghting for my
Sovereign for half his life. When I returned…well, that boy
is her creature to the bone now. Just as she intended. She
and Aja always detested each other, you know. That Aja’s
boy is now her personal killing machine is her ultimate
revenge.”
“Did Atalantia give the order to kill me?”
“I doubt it. To do so would be to admit to herself that she
cannot tame you,” he says. “She would not lose such a
prize as you lightly. But if she did give the order, she would
not tell me.” He pulls a ﬁg from a bag and pops it into his
mouth, oﬀering me one. I take three. “So long as Ajax is

ruled by his heart and cock, there will be no place for the
boy who used to make him feel small. Knowing this, you
still claim no intent on his life?”
“It changes nothing,” I reply. “I am here for the people of
the Society, for Kalindora, for my Praetorians. I will not let
them burn as hostages of the enemy. I know an assault is
pending on Heliopolis. I assume Darrow is besieged there?”
He watches me without speaking for some time.
“You look very much like your mother when you feign
nobility, you know.” He ponders over a ﬁg. “It won’t be an
assault. I have recently concluded ﬁeld testing of a new
chemical weapon. Atalantia is intent on releasing it, so she
does not destroy Heliopolis’s wealth before taking it as her
own. The Master Maker will watch as his city eats itself.”
“What does the chemical do?”
“Omnicide.”
I see it already.
A catalogue of horrors wracks Kalindora’s face. I see her
convulsing and vomiting blood. I see buboes bubbling on
her skin. I see the skin melting away. I did not know until
this moment how much I would do to stop that. She is a
killer. But the weariness I saw in her eyes, the way she
looked at me when the Praetorians came down…It was
something close to pride. I can’t let her die, or Rhone or my
Praetorians, or any of the loyal subjects caught between
two giants. Too many lives have already been spent too
easily by people who should know better.
“Did you learn omnicide in the Kuiper?” I ask.
“No. I learned to outsource.”
Cryptic. “You mentioned a Master Maker…”
“Ah, yes. Your old friend Glirastes. He’s no longer just an
artiﬁcer. He’s proven himself a traitor. He abetted the
enemy’s use of the Storm Gods.”
“I don’t believe it.”

“Trust me when I say men do strange things out of fear.
Now he will die with them. And his precious city.” He does
not sound happy about the last part. “Now, where are my
manners? Are you hungry for a real meal? In the morning
we’ll be departing for the Annihilo, but I’m sure Atalantia
will cause a fuss if I haven’t fed you.” He fetches a bowl of
fresh bread and two boiled pieces of meat.
“What is this?” I ask as I chew.
“What does it taste like?”
“Bat.”
“Well, there you have it.”
He watches with a strange expression as I eat. It is oddly
civilized, this conversation, considering his men only just
tortured me. He still has not tendered an apology, nor do I
expect he ever will.
“You do not seem to advocate for Atalantia’s plan,” I test.
“I have no tolerance for rebels. But this planet did not
rebel. It was conquered. I think you would agree it is a
strategic mistake to confuse the two, and to cede the moral
high ground to the enemy when we’ve only just reclaimed
it. If we kill twenty million, will anyone remember the
Reaper’s Storm?”
“Yet you do not contradict Atalantia…”
He laughs. “I am a soldier. Soldiers follow orders.”
“She gives you autonomy. Can’t you inﬁltrate the city?
Bring down their shields from the inside?”
“No. My men inside are dead. The Howlers know
counter-espionage all too well. And the loyalists are as
neutered as a logos.”
That puts me in a unique position as I ponder playing yet
another stupid game.
He grows suspicious. If anything, undermining
Atalantia’s plan puts him on guard. I want him at ease. Get

him talking about himself. About something he likes. I try
his mother, Gaia, and tell him of my time with her, but he
replies very little, and grows somewhat defensive. The
ﬁgurines—they’re the only thing here without utility. I
stand and approach them. The detailing is impressive, as is
the variety of subject. There are a few Golds, but most are
lowColor. I pick up one of a Red woman.
“That one is called Daedre,” he explains. “We became
familiar on the outskirts of Olympia. Tough woman.”
“For a Red?”
“Tough woman.”
“Are they trophies?”
He looks insulted as he joins me. “They are meditation
totems. Each is for a human who preyed upon my
prejudices. Daedra seemed harmless, kind, stupid. She
brought my men ﬁgs and bread every day for a week, until
her ﬁgs were laced with a nerve agent. A hundred and four
men died because I could not see her for what she was.”
“A zealot?”
“A soldier,” he corrects.
I’m still in his peripheral vision.
I take a step back and look at the ﬁgures with a frown.
“Where’s Darrow? Surely he’s fooled you a few times.”
“It’s a work in progress. I did the legs before I met him,
but how can you understand a man at war with himself?”
He turns his back to me to reach toward the far end of the
nook. Clenching Daedra in my hand, I ready to swing at the
nerve packet located behind his left ear. “If you strike me, I
suggest you have a plan.” He doesn’t turn around to defend
himself. It throws me oﬀ guard. “I assume you saw my
escape map? The tunnels can be tricky, and memory for us
mere mortals is ﬂeeting.” He turns around and leans
against the wall. “It won’t work, you know. Me as your
Trojan horse.”

“It might.”
“Let’s say you did manage to subdue me. Possible, given
your youth, but not probable, given your state and my
vocation. You would then have to free the Arcosians, use
my escape map to that blasted labyrinth, evade my men,
ﬂee across the desert, pray Darrow lets you inside
Heliopolis, gamble that your thin ruse of Cato au Vitruvius
holds, and then kill the most dangerous man alive.”
“I don’t intend on killing him.”
“And the rest?”
“Prescient.”
“Is it for auctoritas? Glory? To prove you are the heir?”
“No.”
“Revenge then?”
“No.”
“Humanitarian concern for your men? Or maybe you
fancy the Love Knight,” he mocks. “Men will do strange
things out of fear, but for love…well, death is hardly the
limit.”
“Who are we if we kill a city that did not rebel?” I ask.
“Interesting. An idealist. Don’t fret, it’s a temporary
condition.” He actually smiles. “They’re guarding the wall
and the shield generator with an army of veterans, you
know. Howlers abound.”
“Predictable targets.”
“What is your target then?”
“Glirastes.”
“He is a traitor.”
“I can turn him back.”
He goes quiet, thinking.
“Why are you not calling your men?” I ask.

“Because I have lived oﬀ the contributions of this planet.
They have sheltered me and my men. They have fed us.
They have informed for us. They have spied and died for us.
Not the highColors. They turned their backs like craven.
But the low, the mid, those with barely anything to their
name, because this is not Mars. This is Mercury. If we just
let them burn, what is the point of this?” He thrusts a
ﬁnger to his scar. “Furthermore, for two weeks my men
have failed to get me inside Heliopolis. What will you do
with Glirastes?”
“I will know once I see the tools available. But I imagine
Darrow knows an attack is coming, and so it likely will be
necessary to hoist him on his own petard.”
“The chances of it working are…”
“Minute.”
He nods to himself. “Obviously, my men can’t know. Make
it look real. Kill them if you must. They know their duty.”
He waits for me to hit him. “Well? Let’s see how good the
pupil of Bellona, Octavia, and Aja really is.”
Is Atlas really going to be a willing participant after what
he’s done to Darrow’s men?
“You know Darrow will kill you.”
“Pulvis et umbra sumus. One servant for twenty million
citizens is easy math. You have ﬁve days until the chemical
attack. Though that may change with my capture.” His
conviction makes me doubt myself. “Don’t balk now.” He
punches me in the nose, breaking it. Blood spurts out. “Do
it.” He hits me again, and I charge him. He ducks under me
and tries to strip my left leg to take me to the ﬂoor in a
kravat central pivot. Cassius loved that one. I counter by
leaving my feet and rolling over his back, looping one arm
under his right armpit as I go, and wrapping my other arm
around his neck as I use my central rotation to roll onto my

back with his spine against my stomach. He has a small
window to reach his bootknife, but he lets it pass.
I loop my arms over his left shoulder and under his right
armpit, pinning his right arm up in a salute. I pin his left
arm to his side by wrapping both my legs around it and his
rib cage and interlocking my ankles. He grunts there,
pinned in a brachial choke. His legs kick as I constrict the
blood ﬂow to his head, but not even an Obsidian could
muscle his way out of this.
I stare at the doorway as his feet scrabble against the
ﬂoor. No Gorgons come to check on their leader. There is
never any need.
When he is unconscious, I release my hold and stand
over him, perplexed.
I haven’t time to understand it. Every moment wasted
will make discovery surer.
I take the tacNet from his weapons nook and shoot it at
his body. It ensnares him. I take his hasta from the wall. My
Bellona blade lies in the dirt. I almost convince myself that
I can bring it with me, but where I’m going I might as well
wear my mother’s ring. I jump and hide the razor in a cleft
in the rock, and use his bootknife to give myself a shallow
wound just above my heart. I smear the blood all over my
face and neck.
The tunnel is dark and empty. Fear’s men are still busy
with their meal. I move as fast as I can back to the
prisoners’ room, my bare feet silent on the stone. Two of
the Gorgons sit on the ﬂoor playing dice when I round the
corner. From his place on the wall, Alexandar sees me ﬁll
the tunnel.
“I want to see the Fear Knight….” he cries to the
Gorgons. The guards turn to look at him. I sprint toward
them. Aja’s lessons guide me. Against a single individual,
you can make a nonlethal takedown with relative

consistency. But two individuals, even of a lower genus,
reduce your chances by seventy percent.
I could kill the two Gorgons with two neat thrusts, but I
make it sloppy. As if I’ve never held a razor. As they turn
back at the sound of my feet, I slash half the head oﬀ the
ﬁrst man like I’m felling a tree. The blade passes through
him as if he weren’t even there and carries on into the
second man’s throat—one of Cassius’s favorite moves
against the shoddy armor common in the Belt. Then
clumsily the razor goes into the cave wall.
Flopping to the ground, the second man stares up with
wide eyes, trying to talk, but I made sure my clumsiness
severed his windpipe. I hack at him a second time. A third.
Then I give a quiet sob and fall to my knees, covered in
blood.
“Gorydamn,” Alexandar breathes. He kicks the other
knights awake. “Cato. Cato. Look at me.” I look up at him,
wide-eyed. “Did anyone see you come in here?”
I shake my head.
“There’s keys on their bodies. Unlatch us and we can
help you. Front chest pocket. That’s it.” With shaking
hands, I free them. “Cato, have you ever used a razor
before?” Alexandar watches the bloody blade in my shaking
hands. I pretend not to be able to think. Finally I shake my
head and give him the blade. Practiced hands strip the
bodies of their night optics, their sidearms, two grenades,
and the single long riﬂe.
“Tell me what happened. Where is the Fear Knight?”
I show them. The professional soldiers miss nothing. In
thirty seconds, we have the map, the go-bag, a glowlamp,
and the Fear Knight’s datapad. For a moment, I think
they’ll discover Cassius’s razor too, but Drusilla only takes
a wolfpelt from the wall. She hands it to Alexandar.

“You’ve a promise to keep,” she tells him. He holds the
pelt for a quiet moment and looks as if he is going to weep.
Then he throws it over his shoulders and binds it to his
tattered shirt.
Ignacius grins as he ﬁnds stims in the Fear Knight’s gobag a moment later. They each shoot a vial into their necks.
The zeal of the drug gives their tortured bodies new life,
but it won’t last long. Correctly deducing that our breakout
will be soon noticed, Alexandar dispatches Drusilla and
Crastus to delay the pursuit.
“How did you get back here?” Ignacius asks. “Why were
you in his room?”
“He was being kind to me,” I say. “He wanted me to trick
you into…into…”
“Doesn’t matter, Ignacius,” Alexandar says. “We have to
move.”
“We’re trapped,” I fret. “They’re going to impale us.”
“No.” He holds up the map. “This is a back door. We
knew he had to have one. We can escape. We are trained
for this, Cato. I know you’re not, but if you keep up with us,
we will keep you alive.”
“Alexandar, we can’t aﬀord to be slowed down,” Ignacius
says. “He’s a loyalist anyway. He can’t—”
“If we get Atlas to the Sovereign, what he has in his head
will save millions,” Alexandar snaps. “This loyalist could
have just won the war, and you want to leave him?”
“He won’t talk.”
“He doesn’t need to.”
What does he mean by that?
Ignacius isn’t convinced. “I don’t trust him.”
“Darrow will question him later,” Alexandar says.
Ignacius nods. “You ever seen one of these?” Alexandar
asks me, holding up a stim vial and looking at my burn.

“What is it?” I ask.
“It’ll make you ﬂy, goodman.” He tilts my neck and
injects it. “How do you feel?”
The military-grade neurotransmitter races through my
veins like a galloping destrier, ﬁlling me with manic energy,
and dulling the communication of pain receptors in my
brain. For the ﬁrst time in weeks my face doesn’t feel like
it’s falling apart. There’s a rumbling groan from up the
tunnel. Drusilla and Crastus return, stone-faced. “Armory
was too well guarded, so we hit the commissary. They’ll be
coming soon as they clear the rubble. We have thirty
seconds at best.”
Alexandar smiles. “Then we have a head start, goodmen.”
He slaps my shoulder and shoves one of the scorchers into
my hands. “On me.”

***LysanderWe flee into the labyrinth. Alexandar sprints ahead as

the stims lend his ravaged body fresh impetus. Buoyed by
Mercury’s light gravity, Drusilla carries the Fear Knight
over her shoulders. The other knights bring up our rear.
The detonation of one of our stolen concussion grenades
rumbles through the tunnel not far behind. Dust shakes
free from the ceiling, clouding the glowlamp Alexandar
uses to light our way.
The tunnel leads us into a convoluted maze cave, where a
network of connecting cave passages forms a threedimensional puzzle. Some asshole terraformer had a gory
ﬁeld day.
Alexandar guides us well with the map, but I hide my
frustration by panting down at the ground when he needs
to pause to reference it again and again. Small beeps sound
from the walls as the Fear Knight’s datapad deactivates
booby traps along the way.

After half a dozen turns, our tunnel tapers to a keyhole
where only two can pass at a time. Drusilla shoves the Fear
Knight through to Alexandar as one of their compatriots
lays a laser trip mine at the keyhole, hoping to collapse it
shut. Down a winding slope we go until we reach a fork of
three routes lit by green Mycena chlorophos on the ceiling
and ﬂoor. Bioluminescent juice squishes from the spores as
we trod them underfoot to coat our bare feet a ghostly
green.
Our mines do not detonate. The Gorgons are no
amateurs. And they are gaining ground.
Right, left, down we go, against all instincts, deeper into
the mountain, over a natural bridge that spans an
underground river, through a chamber so ﬁlled with spores
it seems nearly daylight, passing gloomy grottoes and
opaque pools. Down and down. Somewhere through the
walls rushes that underground river. It dwindles and for
several minutes the only sound is the labored breathing of
the Golds. My fear is as real as theirs. If Atlas’s men catch
us, they will not talk to me. They will butcher me with
Alexandar and his kin, and the Fear Knight will apologize to
Atalantia as he delivers my mutilated corpse.
I feel that fear vibrating like a dark river, but I leech its
power, and use the adrenaline for my muscles, to narrow
my vision, to calibrate my senses to absorb the slightest
change in stimuli.
Soon the stench of ammonia ﬁlls my nose. I hear a
chittering. The air thickens and warms as we enter a
microclimate and the mouth of the tunnel expands to a
great cathedral, the ﬂoor and walls undercut and eroded by
what I presume to be carbonic acid. I grab Alexandar to
stop him just before he spills over the edge. His men almost
bowl us over.
“By Jove,” he whispers at the dramatic drop.

He shines his light upward. In the vaulted reaches of the
cathedral roost legions of bats. Their ranks cover the
ceiling and disappear up into apse ﬂutes where unseen
millions must sleep.
“Milkbats,” Alexandar whispers. They paralyze their
victims with spines on the insides of their wings. Then they
feed on the helpless victim’s bone marrow. So Atlas did
feed me bat.
Damn the blackmarket carvers. This is why the Board of
Quality Control regulated them so assiduously. Men just
want to create apex predators because it delights them, but
then those predators kill oﬀ everything else, overpopulate,
and break the ecosystem.
I almost laugh at the irony.
Beneath the sleeping horde lies a sea of guano. It
stretches the entire length of the cavern, its surface
writhing with millions of mothroaches and albino
centipedes.
“How deep you think it is?” Drusilla whispers.
“Immaterial,” Alexandar snaps. “It’s just shit. Let’s go.”
“Those are milkbats.”
“I told you that.”
“Their guano can stretch as deep as thirty meters,” I say.
“And there’s withertails in there.”
Drusilla tenses, staring at the albino centipedes. “What’s
a withertail?”
“Worse than the bats,” I say.
“They’re coming,” Ignacius says with a growl. He
squares his big shoulders to the tunnel behind us.
“It must be passable.” Alexandar scans the cathedral.
“There.”
In the gloom he spots a narrow shelf of stone leading
along right, around the guano sea. We rush along it as fast

as we dare. Alexandar drags the Fear Knight awkwardly,
and almost loses him oﬀ the edge of the shelf. “Six o’clock!”
Drusilla shouts. One of the knights ﬁres at the Gorgon
coming out the tunnel. He misses. The Gorgons do not. A
projectile hits the knight. His right leg disconnects from his
body at the hip joint. He screams as he loses his balance
and topples down into the guano. It absorbs him like
quicksand. He tries to claw his way to the surface, but
missing a leg, he can’t stay atop the sludge. Then he
screams as the withertails ﬁnd him.
Drusilla and the Gorgons exchange ﬁre. High-velocity
rounds hiss through the air.
“Crastus!” Alexandar shouts. He’s about to jump down to
try to rescue his friend. If he dies, this is all for nothing. I
grab him and shoot at the ceiling.
A million bats explode in a fury. Let their thermal optics
deal with that.
I drag Alexandar and we make our way along the narrow
shelf and out the cathedral, harried by bats the entire way.
One’s attached itself to Drusilla. Alexandar cuts its head oﬀ
with his razor and peels out its bristles. Drusilla sicks up on
the ﬂoor, but stumbles after us, eyes dazed. Ignacius has to
take the Fear Knight’s body. After a series of turns, we ﬁnd
ourselves near the end of the Fear Knight’s map. It is a
limestone chamber ﬁlled with pools of dark water and
stalactites dripping from the ceiling. I stop, searching the
bioluminescent-lit walls, and feel panic rising in me. “What
is it?” Drusilla asks Alexandar. “Are we lost?”
“This isn’t on the map,” he says.
“What do you mean it isn’t on the map?” she asks.
Instead of two tunnels, there are seven.
Ignacius hurls the Fear Knight to the ground. “I knew
this was a fool’s errand. Looks like it’s a ﬁght after all.”

Drusilla slumps on a knee, breathing heavily from the
milkbat venom. “We’re almost out of ammunition. Which
way is it?”
“I don’t know,” Alexandar says. He pockets the map and
slaps the Fear Knight’s face. “Wake up. Wake up, damn
you!” He doesn’t. “Shit. We make our stand here. Hit them
as they come in. Make this a melee aﬀair.”
“They have Golds too,” I say.
“Not like us.”
“A lovely sentiment, but untrue,” Drusilla says. “There’s
at least ﬁfteen Scars. But it’ll be Berserks they send in
ﬁrst.”
“Then we die with glory,” Ignacius mutters.
Alexandar searches the tunnels. The wrong one will lead
us oﬀ the map and we might starve to death before we ﬁnd
a way out. He’d rather ﬁght than trust his chances with
that.
The Arcosian Knights follow Alexandar’s commands and
take up positions around the room to ambush our pursuers,
as if you can ambush anyone with thermal optics in a cold
cave. If we wanted to ﬁght, it should have been in the
guano grotto. Positively criminal how quickly razors reduce
genius IQs to simple grunt logic.
I face the tunnels.
There is no reason the Fear Knight would have a fake
map in his private quarters. Therefore, the map must be
real and cannot be wrong. If it is not wrong, then it is
shorthand. Two tunnels were supposed to be here, yet
there are seven. I search for a pattern of two. Ah, the pools.
“I found the way,” I whisper.
“Shut up. I hear something,” Ignacius says. Alexandar
hides behind a stalactite, waiting for the Gorgons to come
from the darkness of the bat cathedral.

“The pools!” I hiss at the fools. Alexandar turns to me.
“The pools lead to a tunnel.” I shine the glowlamp down.
Sure enough, a tunnel large enough for three men to swim
abreast is faintly visible beneath the surface.
“You clever bastard!” Alexandar slaps me on the back.
We dive into the pool. The water is hot and bubbles from
cracks in the stone. The glowlamp splashes pale light on
the slick tunnels beneath the surface. Alexandar covers the
Fear Knight’s nose and mouth to stop him from inhaling
water.
When we emerge in a small grotto, I gasp for air and pull
myself onto the slick stone. Alexandar and the others
breach the water and I help them lever the Fear Knight out
of the pool.
We ﬁnd the escape gravBikes underneath a camouﬂage
tarp on the far side of the grotto. Concussion and gas traps
deactivate from the passive signal in the Fear Knight’s
datapad. We take a bike each, slash the fuel cells of the rest
with our razors, and tie the Fear Knight onto the hauling
rack of Drusilla’s under a portion of the camo tarp.
Alexandar cuts the camo tarp into several more pieces and
secures one on the hauling racks of each bike. Clever
thinking.
I nod when he asks me if I know how to drive one of the
bikes. “Not much to do in Erebos except daylight fancies.”
“Do not stop for anyone,” Alexandar tells us. He inserts
the bike’s wired com into his ear and motions me to do the
same. “Coms in. We’re playing clamshells, Goblin style.
Head straight south for Heliopolis. Drusilla will have the
Fear Knight. Everyone else, we’re only here to buy her
time. They can’t use orbit support while we have Fear. So
don’t shy oﬀ. Let’s get this bastard back to the boss.” He
gives them a ﬁrm smile, forgetting me completely. “Hail
libertas.”

“Hail Reaper,” they echo.
The engines scream like crying babies as we tear oﬀ
down the tunnel toward daylight. The sunlight blinds, even
this late in the afternoon. We take a thin track down the
mountain. The gravBike sighs up and down on its gravity
cushion, very similar to the bikes Cassius and I used in
Darentan Station when running from Syndicate clone
traders.
The controls are touchy, especially to motor reﬂexes
under the inﬂuence of stims, but they’re far simpler
machines than starShells. A powerful engine provides
thrust from behind, as low-powered gravity thrusters
beneath create half a meter of ﬂoating clearance from the
ground. The seat is curved to angle the rider forward, with
a rear seat for the gunner. Soon I’ve the hang of it, though
I’m by far the worst pilot.
“Pup One to Howler One…” Alexandar announces over
the com, using our transponders to boost his signal in a
desperate bid to reach Heliopolis. It just might. The Society
won’t be jamming its own frequencies. But if Heliopolis
hears it, every Gold in a thousand kilometers will.
I thought this would be a clandestine engagement.
He just put it on the big stage.
“Pup One to Howler One. Handshake: 2345209. We have
Anteater. I repeat, we have Anteater. Sliders in pursuit. Are
bearing south at 53.48, 113.41, requesting LongMalice
support. I repeat…”
The track spits us out into a salt ﬂat. The knights push
the bikes for all they’re worth. Alexandar’s wolfpelt
streams behind. They start weaving in and out of one
another to confuse enemy targeting. Seems unnecessary.
Didn’t we destroy the other bikes? I start weaving with
them, just a moment before Ignacius banks in front of me,

then swerves back without the top half of his muscular
body. His gravBike drifts sideways, losing speed.
Snipers.
I glance back. The cave is barely a dot. We must be ﬁve
kilometers away, an impossible shot, even for lurchers…
Something whips past and a huge crater opens up just left
of my bike’s nose. I send my bike into frantic contortions,
and soon it seems we’re out of range, but Alexandar has
not let up. He hunches grim-faced over his handlebars,
looking left and right and repeating his message to his
master.
Ah, of course.
A swarm of hooded Gorgons on gravBikes ﬂow down the
nearly vertical face of a sandstone butte to our left. Another
swarm pours out of a mountain valley to the right, racing to
cut us oﬀ before we can get free of the mountains. All over
the mountain range, the acolytes of the Fear Knight emerge
from subterranean bunkers like hornets from a kicked nest.
RADTATATATATATAT
The ground in front of us ruptures with railgun ﬁre, not
to kill us, but to drive us west back into the mountains. We
call the bluﬀ and drive through it. Debris rips into my burn
at two hundred kilometers an hour. A rock almost takes my
head oﬀ. Then we’re through, pushing for the open desert,
the pursuing bikes still kilometers oﬀ. Three hundred
kilometers an hour. The world is a blur, but the Mind’s Eye
makes everything feel languorous as I bob and weave
around boulders and debris.
A vertical silver slash comes down from the sky.
WAAAAAAAAAOOOO
A beam of white light obliterates the horizon, leaving a
gash of light across my vision. The sand of the desert
pulses deep red as it’s turned to glass in a twenty-kilometer
swath. “Idle banter!” Alexandar crows. “We’ve got your

dog, Grimmus. We’ve got your dog!” I can’t help thinking of
Cassius and Darrow riding over the Martian highlands of
the Institute crowing nearly the same thing.
We careen over the molten desert. The heat radiates
upward. My bare feet begin to blister. I pull them up to rest
on the chassis. Through the warped air, another squadron
of Gorgons appears. “Split ’em. Cato, follow me.”
Hadrian banks left with Drusilla. I follow Alexandar right.
The Gorgons divide to follow us, not knowing which has the
Fear Knight. More orbital strikes come down to hem us in,
but Alexandar is a god on a bike. He leads a whole
squadron of Gorgons into a particle beam. They disappear
like mist as we bank into a canyon, then spit out the other
side. I stick on his tail as we head to the open desert.
I glance back.
Two kilometers behind, an army pursues. We’ll never
make it.
“Pup One to Howler One. Do you read me?”
No answer but static. Soon Society air support will come.
They’ll be scrambling ripWings. Aerial infantry will block
our path.
We continue our course. With no way to down us without
killing the Fear Knight, it becomes an endurance race. The
gravBikes holding steady behind us in the open desert,
suggesting a trap up ahead. The giant sun begins to set and
stain the horizon the color of hot metal. The stims have
faded. The agony of the burn returns, and I see Alexandar
slumping in his saddle. Drusilla has linked up with us
again, though there is no sign of Hadrian. Only three bikes
remain. Debris from the Battle of Heliopolis begins to litter
the sand with shriveled remains of war machines.
Soon we can see the storm wall of Heliopolis as a thin
metal line in the far distance. But setting down between us
and it is a line of mechanized Grimmus troopers. They’ll

have electrical cannons to fry our bikes’ electronics.
RipWings buzz overhead suddenly. The Society trap closes.
“We have to run it,” Alexandar says. I see no way through.
The pursuing Gorgons creep closer. “Pup One to Howler
One,” Alexandar calls, panic ﬁnally making its way into his
voice. “Our path is blocked. Pup One to Howler—”
A voice unlike any other comes over the com.
“Howler One to Pup One. Continue course. LongMalice
deployed at danger close. Midnight inbound.”
“Stick tight to me!” Alexandar says. “Cato, Drusilla! Stick
tight!”
Thooom. Thooom. Thooom.
Huge explosions break the face of the desert. They
blossom into acrid clouds of smoke and sand in the center
of the Grimmus troopers. Darrow’s artillery guns send
another salvo arching from the city through the air in the
thin gap between the storm wall and the dome shield of
Heliopolis. They decimate everything in their path. Huge
holes are blown in the pursuing squadrons of gravBikes as
artillery shells scream over our heads.
It is all absurd sound and fury. Individual patterns in the
metal and noise show the intelligent hands at work—move
and countermove, measure and countermeasure—and how
together they make insanity.
All this for the thin man attached to the back of Drusilla’s
bike. Neither alliance ﬁghting for love or hate, only the
utility that one life will provide them. And when I think of
that distant look in Atlas’s eyes as I choked him out, that
look that reminded me of Cassius when he went to face the
Raa, I understand what they both knew—how foolish all
this rage is.
Before I plunge into the smoke of the artillery
bombardment, the last thing I see is a ripWing squadron

streaking out from under Heliopolis’s shield with guns
ablaze.
Blinded by dust and smoke, I hug my bike and close my
eye. Debris pings oﬀ the metal chassis like hailstones and
bites at my legs and face. The air is hot and ghastly. I want
to sob in terror. I focus my Mind’s Eye, and it all quiets.
I weave around a man-sized chunk of starShell, almost in
slow motion. Nothing hurts me. Nothing exists but the
mind.
Then I burst out of the smoke.
A wash of clean air as I tear out the other side of the
cloud to see a heavy shuttle unlike any other ever built
hovering a meter above the ground. Alexandar drives into
it, his bike smashing and sparking as it hits the ramp and
careens into the cargo bay. I goose the thruster and nearly
fall oﬀ my bike as Drusilla’s slams into me from the left and
locks together with mine, driving me oﬀ course. A ragged
chunk of metal impales her through the chest. I crank my
bike left and skid sideways, dragging hers into the
transport. I feel myself sailing through the air. I collide with
something unmovable. My shoulder is pulled from its
socket. The engines rumble beneath. I feel us rising. And I
lie there feeling very calm and present, because standing
over me, roaring for retreat, is the Reaper himself.

***Darrowas the shuttle shoots
through the aerial gate in the storm wall, and back to the
safety of Heliopolis’s shield. Remains of bikes litter the
shuttle’s cargo bay. Drusilla, one of Alexandar’s cousins,
shakes on the ﬂoor, a piece of metal through her chest. The
medici swarm over her. A second Gold groans at my boots.
Lean and caked in so much desert chalk it shudders oﬀ him
as he coughs. I search him for weapons. His face is
mangled and melted on one side.
“Get us to the Star,” I shout at our pilot.
Thraxa jerks a tarpaulin oﬀ the back of a crashed bike to
reveal a body. She yanks on the man’s dark blond hair so I
can see his face. “Look what the pup dragged in!” She spits
on his unconscious face and puts all her substantial weight
and strength behind her knee to break his sword arm, then
she breaks the right for good measure, before manhandling
him into more secure cuﬀs. “We’re going to have some fun,
impaler.”
HE AIR HEAVES WITH SHOCKWAVES

I heave a bike out of the way to reveal the last body.
Alexandar. He’s nearly unrecognizable. His ears and
several ﬁngers have been cut away and large strips of skin
eaten oﬀ. I throw myself over him and check his pulse. It is
faint. When I tear open his coat, I ﬁnd two exit wounds in
his chest. “Alexandar!” I say, shaking him. “Alexandar!”
His eyes crack open and he manages a smile. His teeth
are missing, I realize in horror. His hands pull dumbly at
something as he pushes a chalky pelt into my hand. “Told
you…I’d bring it back.”
Blood bubbles out his mouth and his eyes roll back.
“Faster!” I shout at the pilot.
I cradle Alexandar in my arms and jump out the back of
the transport before it even makes its emergency landing.
The medici are waiting for us, but their gurney will be too
slow. I sprint past them carrying the man, scattering
deckhands, not stopping until I lay him down in the
medBay. He’s barely breathing. Rhonna rushes into the
room behind me, her eyes wild. “Alexandar!” She pushes to
his side as the medici prep him for transport to the surgery
ward. “Alexandar…” Her eyes search the horror of his face.
His missing ears, the strips of stolen ﬂesh, the toothless
mouth as his lips part to murmur something. “What did
they do to him!” she screams. “What did they do?
Alexandar.”
The medici pull her away and rush with him toward the
surgery ward. I follow. A chief medicus pushes at me, her
feet sliding on the ﬂoor.
“Sir!”
“We’re going with him,” I snarl.
“Then you’re going to contaminate the room and terrify
my surgeons,” the medicus says. “Wait here.”
“Do not let that boy die,” I say to her. “Do you
understand me?”

“We’ll do what is medically possible, sir.”
Rhonna and I are left in the silence of the intake room
listening to machines beep. A ragged breath escapes her
and her skeleton seems to fold in on itself as she hunches
in a corner. She was furious when I left her behind to get
Alexandar, but she’s still in no shape for combat. I thought
deep down that this had to be some trick. Some trap of the
Fear Knight’s. It seemed impossible to hope yet I took the
risk. And now that Alexandar is alive, somehow despite
everything, he may yet be taken. It all seems so unfair.
“Fear butchered him,” Rhonna says, too numb to cry. “He
cut him to pieces.”
“Do you have coagulant?” I ask a medical oﬀicer. The
oﬀicer disappears through a door and comes back with an
injector. “I’ll be right back,” I tell Rhonna.
“Don’t,” she says as I reach the door. “Just don’t.”
I make no promises as I leave.
—
I stalk through the brig. Saud and Carthii prisoners idle
about in their cells to either side. Soldiers mill outside an
open high-security cell. They press to the walls, clearing
the way when they see me charging with a full head of
steam.
“Darrow…” Thraxa warns, blocking the door into the cell
and holding up her hands.
“Move.”
“I know how you feel. If it were up to me, I’d beat him to
death with a teakettle. But we need information from him.”
I take a step close enough to her that I can see the clogged
pores of her broad nose.
“Move.”

She moves. Inside the cell, the Fear Knight is being
woken up by a medicus and scanned by a team of techs.
“Get out,” I tell the medicus. “But don’t go far. He’ll need
you soon.”
The Fear Knight sits up on the foam mattress and looks
at me with a start as the vebrine they’ve given him kicks in.
I inject his neck with the coagulant and take the cuﬀs oﬀ
his hands. His arms bend unnaturally from Thraxa’s rough
handling. I survey the monster. The Rim Gold is skinny from
his time in the desert, like a piece of dehydrated beef.
Pensive, intelligent eyes stare back at me from under the
chalk without even a trace of fear. It isn’t like the Jackal,
whose eyes were like empty bowls. Neither are they
animalistic like Atalantia’s. These are soulful eyes of a man
who knows he’s chewing on human ﬂesh and swallows
because he can.
I lean forward. “If I came to you laid out like a suckling
pig, would you accept the boon without suspicion?”
“Highly doubtful.”
I look at his hands. “How many of my men have those
hands impaled?”
“Enough, so it seems.”
“Did those hands cut my Howler’s ears oﬀ?”
“They did.”
I pull my razor oﬀ my arm and let it hang loose. “Do you
think you deserve to keep them?” My slingBlade forms
slowly at my side.
He turns his hands over as if viewing them for the ﬁrst
time and speaks to me in Latin before translating to
Common. “Caesar was a clod. But he got one thing right:
war gives the right to the conquerors to impose any
condition they please upon the vanquished.” He presents
his hands to me.
I prepare to cut them oﬀ.

Yet my hand stays still at my side. A week ago, I would
have. Throughout the war, I’ve done worse. But it would
not be for my army. It would be for me. Was this the
compromise that poisoned our Republic? Was this rage
what made us forget that our hope is founded in our virtue?
Virtue that has been sorely lacking, and which led to
Orion’s genocide?
“All of a man’s aﬀairs become diseased when he wishes
to cure evils by evils,” Atlas recites. “For order, I impaled
soldiers. For liberty, you drowned cities. The victor writes
history with the blood of the vanquished. I wonder, in the
end, which of us will turn out the hero? Don’t you?”
I leave the Fear Knight without a word. Outside, I ﬁnd
Thraxa waiting for me with several dozen of Rat Legion.
“Get information from him,” I order.
“I’ll lead the torture personally,” Thraxa says.
I look back at the man. I know better than most how any
man will cave to torture in the end, but I also fear false
information. “He’ll just lead us astray. My wife will crack
him.”
Thraxa looks concerned. “Darrow, Virginia is—”
“And so was Alexandar until today.” I survey the
legionnaires with Thraxa, and make it a moral victory. “Use
all means within the bounds of the New Compact. If the Vox
won’t obey it, we will. The information he has in his head
could win this war. The men will want to cut that head oﬀ.
If he dies, I will hold Rat Legion accountable.”
They salute.
“What about Cato?” Thraxa asks.
“Who?”
“The fourth Gold. He says he helped them escape. No
conﬁrmation yet from Alexandar.”
I look back at the Fear Knight. He’s a man of too many
layers. Was this planned to get him inside? Cato inside?

Would Atlas risk that? “I don’t need another variable here.
If Alexandar survives, we’ll ask him ourselves about this
Cato. Until then, isolate him, check his story, and order a
full analysis.”
A vigil waits outside the medical bay. Alexandar’s cult of
young Gold acolytes has swollen to include men and women
from all branches. Colloway exits as I reach the door. I
frown, wondering if I have the wrong room. He holds little
love for Alex but now he just shrugs at my expression and
claps my shoulder. “Chin up. Your boy’s a Stoneside, ain’t
he?”
I join Rhonna and sit in the chair beside her. She looks at
my razor for traces of blood. I shake my head. With a nod
for herself, she puts her small hand over mine and together
we wait.
We’re woken some time in the night by the medicus. The
cold woman has not even the faint trace of a smile as she
tells us that Alexandar survived and we can see him in the
morning.
When the medicus returns I let Rhonna go in ﬁrst. After
several minutes she reappears with red-rimmed eyes. She
smiles. “He’s asking for the boss.”
Alexandar lies shirtless in the bed, perforated with IVs.
His face is still swollen, and bandages cover the empty ear
sockets. He reaches a hand out to clasp Rhonna’s as I loom
over him. “ ’Lo, boss,” he says with a childish smile.
“Hey, kid. Thanks for bringing back my cloak.”
—
Glirastes is snorting drugs as Harnassus paces a hole in the
brieﬁng room carpet. A silver chimera drug dispenser full
of sol dust slips out from the Master Maker’s voluminous
sleeve. I pull up a chair and sit across from him.

He admires his chimera. “When I had my ﬁrst bite of sol
dust, I thought I had arrived. I was a young man, of course.
And once you’ve had stallions galloping through your veins,
well…” He dabs the golden powder that rims his nostril and
looks at it. “Very nearly cost my career. It was a long time
before I realized one doesn’t have to drink the whole glass
in one gulp.”
Pulling back his upper eyelid, he works the powder into
his eye and sighs.
“I’m told you’ve stopped working,” I say. “Sardines
again?”
“Gods no, it’s a Thursday,” Glirastes says. “I’m sure you
would agree certain standards must be maintained in a
professional relationship between patron and artist. For
instance, I would never deem it appropriate to imprison any
of your friends and expect felicitations from you. It would
simply compromise the relationship.”
“Harnassus says you’re close with this Cato au
Vitruvius.”
“You sound tired, Darrow.”
“It’s been a long week.”
“Then don’t make it longer on yourself. Cato is, in many
ways, my only pupil.”
“That callow boy?”
“That callow boy did what all your men could not. I know.
When I ﬁrst met him, I was as dubious as you are now. Just
another fawning sycophant relying upon the wealth of his
parents for access to me. Disgusting. But he has depth to
him. He appreciates the grand without sacriﬁcing the
minute.
“You drowned half of Helios. I mourned for the dead. And
now that one of them, a boy who is like a son to me, has
come back, you think you can keep him from me?” Glirastes
shakes his head. “I have done all you asked. I am your

gateway out of hell.” He leans back and rests his hands on
his tummy. “It is your army. So do what you will. But if Cato
is not out of your prison and sharing a toast to life with me
over a glass of shiraz by tonight, then you will have to ﬁnd
yourself another Master Maker to build your gateway.”
—
Through the video feed I watch Cato au Vitruvius admit
that he is a libertine to our lie detector.
“Science?” I ask my Yellow science oﬀicer. Harnassus has
assembled the team I put on Cato to deliver me their full
analysis.
“We ran his DNA against the active Society military
database and Gorgon NOC list with no matches. He is not a
member, nor does he have relations in their military. Of
course, without connection to Skyhall, we don’t have access
to the census records.”
Screwface nods from his darkened corner. He brought us
the military database information. “Ain’t laid eyes on that
sorry Pixie before. If he’s a Gorgon, he’s young, deep, and
out on a limb.”
“Linguistics?”
“His dialect is rare,” a Pink says. “It has inﬂections of
Western Ladonese, which is the predominant accent of
Erebos and its surrounding municipalities, but it is
primarily Heliopolitan Aureate.”
“So he’s lying about his origins.”
“No,” the slender Pink says. “On the contrary, patrician
families of Erebos consider Western Ladonese to be a
plebeian tongue. Most embrace the Tychian accent, but a
minority of ancient families consider that to be…inelegant,
and so train their children against the grain in the

aﬀectation of Old Heliopolitan. It’s a nuance so particular
the notion that he would think to imitate it beggars belief.”
“Why?” I ask.
“I can speak Common in ninety-eight dialects, and even I
have not thought it practical to master Old Heliopolitan. No
one speaks it except maybe two hundred families of
Erebos.”
“Medical?”
A Yellow pipes up from behind his optical display. “He
has no signs of military-grade implantation. No foreign
elements in his person, nor radiation marking except minor
radiation poisoning. His blood pressure is low. Heart is
abnormally powerful: twenty-ﬁve beats per minute, and
shows signiﬁcant signs of Mithridatism, a practice common
in secondary Aureate families as emulation of the more
signiﬁcant families.”
“Maniacs,” Harnassus mutters. “Poisoning yourself is
now fashion?”
“Been hot on the Palatine and Venus for years,”
Screwface says. “I slipped Atalantia a full dose of
methracene, and all she got was a brief bout of bloody
emesis.”
The Yellow plods on. “While we cannot divine if he has
razor-pattern calluses owing to the burns on his hands, he
has never borne a Peerless Scar. There is no sign of facial
skin grafting or bone reconstruction to cover an existent
one. His wounds are consistent with his story. His brain
scans do not show signs of Securitas conditioning; however,
his limbic system has some unusual synaptic activity which
may be signs of childhood trauma and memory repression
but would require additional analysis to render conclusive.
Overall, he is an extremely healthy adult Aureate between
eighteen and twenty-three years old.”

“So what you are all saying is that he is telling the truth.
Or lying very well,” I say. “Let’s ﬁnd out which. Screw, I
want your eyes on this.”

***LysanderAlteration in vocal patterns, unnatural stillness, timing

lag between verbal statements and physical expression,
distancing language, linear left eye drift, abnormal
gesticulation, extraneous overexplanation, pupil dilation,
swallowing, grooming gestures, head canting, pulse
rapidity, irregular blinking.
These are some of the most obvious symptoms of lying
that are drilled into Securitas agents in order to drill them
out. To become a full-ﬂedged Venator or frumentarius, one
must have a ninety percent success rate in telling a lie to
an instructor. Of course, I passed Grandmother’s exam
when I was six.
So it is with droll amusement that I stare down the optic
reader of their robotic lie detector and think nothing much
of it. It is profoundly large, almost the size of a small man,
chrome, spherical, ﬂoating, with a hulking red eye. It is
grandiosely named BloodHound XTC-1400, a product of
Sun Industries, which no doubt cost Skyhall billions in

research and development money to old Regulus. I can
understand the investment. In a war where each side
wields hundreds of thousands of informants and covert
agents, it is as good as a guillotine.
But for all this new civilization’s love aﬀair with
technology, they’ve been seduced by their own cleverness
and fail to understand the simple truth: lying is not a
science, it is an art. And art will always be a human
language.
I was under observation when we rose over the city wall
under heavy ﬁre; when Darrow jumped out with Alexandar
bleeding everywhere; when they took me on a stretcher to
their medBay; when they treated my burns and wounds;
when they asked me questions while I was drugged with
narcotics; when I showered; when I ate steak, potatoes,
and greens laced with some mild inhibition inhibitor in my
saferoom; when armed guards escorted me to be
interviewed casually; when I gave a formal interview to two
ethereal Pinks; when a handsome Gold Howler interrogated
me; when I used the restroom; and when I walked through
the hall to sit in this white room for two hours as their little
toy investigated my story.
They are not measuring lies now. They are crossreferencing current patterns with “normal” patterns from
their recordings by asking a mix of old and new questions.
It is a fruitless endeavor.
“How did you come to be captured by the Gorgons?”
“I stepped on a landmine while trying to put your men
out of their misery.”
“You killed them?”
“One. Have you ever seen a man impaled?”
“You did not try to save their lives?”
“Have you ever seen a man impaled?”
“How did you kill them?”

“With a scorcher.”
“What type?”
“I don’t know.”
“Where did you get it?”
“It was my father’s.”
“And you do not know the type?”
“It was a pistol.”
“What are the names of your parents?” the machine asks
in the ﬁfteenth line of inquiry about my parents. It is the
ﬁrst time it has asked for their names.
“Actus au Salan and Leticia au Vitruvius.” Real people.
Real family. Paid oﬀ upon the three visits I made to
Mercury to substantiate my identity. Thank Jove
Grandmother was paranoid of assassination.
I would be concerned if I didn’t know that years ago,
when my grandmother died, my godfather activated a
protocol which erased the census records of all Golds,
fearing the Rising would use the list as an assassination
tool. Their sole veriﬁer for my tale is a man wildly popular
with the lowColors of Mercury and invaluable to their
cause, who is no doubt being questioned in another room in
a much less menacing fashion as to whether he knows Cato
au Vitruvius.
Glirastes will be shocked to hear the name. But when he
does, he will know I am alive. And that man has never
wished harm upon me. Even if they press him, a partial
truth is hard to detect as a lie, because it comes from
memory instead of the creative center of the brain. An
entirely diﬀerent physiological reaction. In any case, artists
are fantastic liars.
“When did you ﬁrst meet Glirastes?”
“In Tyche at his oﬀices.”
“Did you seek the meeting?”

“Yes.”
“How old were you?”
“Six? Seven?”
“Why did you seek the meeting?”
“He built the Water Gardens. The Library of Erebos. The
Water Colossus. The Ocular Sphere. He’s a god here, as
Oranges go.”
“Why were you in Tyche?”
“My parents were doing something. I don’t remember
what. They liked parties. I know that.”
“Why Vitruvius?” the machine asks instead of the
perfectly functional Green and Pink humans sitting behind
it. These people. First the mines, now interrogations.
They’re literally roboticizing themselves to death.
“My mother was…well, it’s embarrassing.” The machine
doesn’t care. It just watches. “She made a bit of a cuckold
out of my father from the start, metaphorically, then
literally. Her family was older. So…”
“How did you overpower the Fear Knight?”
“Overpower? I didn’t.”
“Rephrasing: how did you come to render him
unconscious?”
“I hit him on the head with a ﬁgurine and then I choked
him. He makes ﬁgurines. He is an absurd man.”
“Why was he showing you ﬁgurines?”
“I don’t know.”
“Did you view his interest in you to be sexual in nature?”
“Sexual?”
“Did he attempt to have intercourse with you?”
“You’ve seen my face. I look like ground hummingbird
tongue. Would you fornicate with me?”
“I ask the questions here,” the machine replies.

The door slams open and over two meters of terror walks
in as if it intends to stomp the room in half. The techs
behind the machine scramble to salute as Darrow pushes
the machine to the side. “Can it work in the corner?” he
asks.
“Yes, Imperator.”
“Then why is it jammed up to his face?”
“It’s on intimidation setting, sir.”
“Bloodydamn toaster.” Darrow pushes the billion-credit
machine into the corner like he’s setting a rotund child in
timeout. “Stay,” he says to it, pointing a ﬁnger. He looks
around for a chair. One appears at the door, carried by a
tiny Red girl with Drachenjäger bolts. They’re using
children in their armies now.
Did she help kill my men?
“Uncle.” She gestures to the chair.
Interesting. Kieran’s eldest then, Rhonna. A lancer now,
like Alexandar. She looks excited. She smiles at me. I
return it in blithe fashion.
“Thank you.” Darrow sighs down into the chair as if he
had the weight of twenty million people on his shoulders,
which may be an understatement. “Get out of here,
Rhonna. I know you’re dying to see the hero.”
She blushes. “I am not.”
“LYING,” the machine bleats from the corner.
Darrow smirks. “Get.”
The Red child scampers to the door, turns in a very
military-like fashion and salutes, not Darrow but me.
“Alexandar sends his gratitude. Be nice to him, Uncle. He
looks about to piss himself.” She shuts the door and the
killer of Octavia, Aja, and my godfather turns his eyes on
me. He wields them like sledgehammers. Yet there is some
relatable quality there in those carved organics. Some
weariness that lacks pretension and would make you think

he’s an everyman instead of a warlord who has started a
crusade that has claimed two hundred ﬁfty million lives and
counting.
“Long day,” he says.
“It would seem.”
I look down to signify submission. Then up to signal
bravery. Then down, as Cato realizes he can’t match a
legend’s gaze. Darrow is used to this, and I make sure my
hands play their proper role, knowing very well how the
Jackal lost his hand. That was always my favorite scene
from the recordings. But unlike the Jackal, I won’t taunt
him or try to appear anything other than what he wants me
to be, and I dare not risk sticking my head in a meatgrinder
by attempting to extract information from Darrow.
“May I just say it is an honor to meet you,” I say.
“Is it?”
“I’ve watched all your holos. My favorite is still when you
took the Vanguard.”
“The Pax,” he corrects.
“Of course. Not necessarily a fan of all your work, but
you have style.”
He grimaces. “Those holos are illegal on Mercury.”
“So are Storm Gods, my goodman! Sorry. Too soon?”
“Millions died in that hypercane, and you jest.”
“To be fair, you did it. But what is the north coast to me?
Tyche, the Children, it’s all for new-money arrogants.”
He looks about to say something, but bites it back. “You
don’t strike me as our usual recruit.”
“Recruit? No. Gods, me, a soldier? Don’t be ridiculous,
my goodman. I’m not nearly Martian enough for all that
terror.”
“No?” He already wants to be rid of me, a thousand
things on his mind. Good. I’ll ﬁt into his gestalt. “You

brought something dear back to me, Cato. In a way…you
gave my army hope again. Alexandar saved eighty-three
thousand four hundred and twenty-six souls in Tyche.”
“Did he? He never mentioned it.”
“No?” Darrow smiles at that, almost as a father would.
“Throw in the sadist knight and it’s the best bloodydamn
present I’ve been given since my wife gave me this beauty.”
He sets his hand on the famous white blade. It is inert and
coiled around his arm like a snake. “So you can understand
if I’m a little suspicious how a self-confessed libertine
from…was it Erebos, brought me all these presents when
ten million professional soldiers and my Howlers could
not.”
“Maybe you should ask them that question,” I say.
He laughs. “You’re funny, but not very likable, are you? I
can see why you’re Glirastes’s type.”
“May I ask what you plan to do for me?”
“For you?”
“Yes, I assume I’m entitled to some sort of reward. I
mean, you did say I did what ten million men could not.” I
give my most self-satisﬁed smile.
“You want a reward? Have you looked outside, man?”
“No. I don’t have windows in my cell.”
I think he wants to punch my head oﬀ my neck. “Gods, I
hate you people,” he says. His patience is thinner than
usual. “If it were up to me, I would lock you away,
humanely, until this is all over. I am short on time and the
last thing I need is another spice in the pot. But as it is, you
happen to be friends with a very…temperamental Master
Maker whose services I require. And he has argued for
your release due to your actions. Let’s set that straight. I
have no intention of releasing you. The streets of Heliopolis
are no place for…”
“Gold libertines?”

“More like Gold corpses.” He lets that sit. “My men lost a
good deal of friends, and the impalement has…made them
reﬂexive. But I also don’t want you here in my
headquarters. Friend of Glirastes or not, I don’t know you,
and I’ve taken enough risks. So I will give you to him on
several conditions: you do not leave the grounds of his
estate and you submit to inspections whenever my guards
at his villa ask you to.”
“That’s acceptable to me. He has a ﬁne villa. Have you
ever walked through the orchard there? He has the most
lovely orchid gazebo at the center.”
He stares at me. “Right. Well, take care, Cato au
Vitruvian.”
“Vitruvius. No reward then?” I ask as he reaches the
door.
He sighs. “What do you want?”
“Several Pinks would do right prime. Come now, my
goodman, surely you don’t abstain completely. What man
could!”
“Say that again.” He takes a step back toward me. I look
at the ground. “That’s what I thought.”
—
Accompanied by Republic legionnaires and a ﬂeet of aides,
Glirastes waits for me beside a large fountain of Laocoön
and his sons in the foyer of the Mound. I can scarcely
believe it is him. The bald Master Maker has always been
slender, but now his aspect borders on cadaverous.
Amongst the slurry of modern uniforms, his crimson linen
robe with silver brocade makes him seem an out-of-place
actor from a vulgar Plautusian play. When he sees me,
those narrow Orange eyes ignite.

“Cato au Vitruvius, my lad, my heart!” he cries, and I am
swallowed in crimson linen. I feel like I am hugging a
skeleton. He pulls back to look up at me. The last time we
met, he was a half meter taller than me. Now it is the
reverse. “Your face…”
“A mere souvenir of a ghastly aﬀair,” I reply. “Perish the
memories.”
“Yes, let them perish indeed. You have quite the
adventure to share. Let us away.”

***DarrowThraxa watches Cato and Glirastes board the ﬂier.

“You saw how he knocked Drusilla’s bike into the hold,”
she says. “That’s some damn ﬁne ﬂying from a Pixie.” She
turns back to me. “If you gave me two minutes with
Glirastes he’d have been begging to get back to work.”
“You didn’t see the man,” Harnassus says. “It’s like his
prodigal son has returned. He was catatonic at the idea
Cato might be a spy. Thinks we’ll torture him or put him in
a hole. If we didn’t give him to the old cretin, who’d ﬁnish
the project?”
“You,” Thraxa says.
“I wish I could,” he replies.
I watch Cato as the door shuts. “What do you think?” I
ask Screw.
“Nothing remarkable there. Just a Pixie twit. Still…”
“Agreed.”

One thing troubles me. Alexandar took me through their
escape. If Cato is so unremarkable, how is it that he
survived and soldiers like Crastus and Drusilla did not?
Luck only goes so far. “Screw put a monitor spike in him
when loading him with anti-rads,” I tell Thraxa and
Harnassus. “You’re both right. We need our Master Maker.
But more important, we need to know if he is our Master
Maker. We’ll watch and listen. Whether he’s Atalantia’s spy
or just a provincial asshole, if Glirastes has gone sour we’ll
ﬁnd out through that Pixie right there.”

***LysanderLady Beatrice, The home of Glirastes, is a wonder. Perched

several hundred meters up the face of a mountain cliﬀ
overlooking the sea, the marble and glass monument to the
bizarre would often be seen ﬂoating over the Bay of Sirens
during the gentle spring months alongside the pleasure
craft of the rich and famous. Now, with fuel monopolized by
the Rising military, its womanly shape rests on its landing
foundations.
It is colder than I remember. The little details have been
forgotten. Flowers rot in vases, scum ﬂoats in shallow
fountains, rooms are dusty and unlit, apples rot on the
orchard grass. Much of Glirastes’s staﬀ, I learn, have been
pressed or have volunteered for service with the Rising.
Many more were lost in his oﬀices in Tyche or excused for
security concerns.
Glirastes himself mirrors the house. He is guarded and
faded.

He would not speak to me in the shuttle except to extend
the ruse. I took his lead, understanding that they likely
ﬁxed me with a monitor spike.
“You remember Exeter, of course,” he says to me as we
are greeted at the landing pad by his valet. Exeter is a
spindly, bone-pale man with a cadaverous face as emotive
as concrete. Few know he is the administrative genius
behind Glirastes’s architectural empire. In the three
springs I spent with Glirastes, I’ve only seen the eerie
Brown smile once. It was early spring and the apple
blossoms were in bloom and a mother bluebell was building
a nest.
“Of course, always a pleasure. Are you still collecting
those queer insects?” I ask.
“I fear I haven’t the time for passions these last years,
dominus,” Exeter says. “However, my collection has grown
since—”
“He doesn’t want to hear about your eerie collection,
Exeter. It is immensely creepy,” Glirastes says. Republic
guards loiter in the foyer. “Exeter will see you to your
room, Cato.”
“I rather hoped to have a discussion with you.”
“I have work to do. I will see you at supper, if I have
time.”
“It is important…”
“I said if I have time.”
Knowing the spike will record all conversation via vocal
vibrations, and cameras will record all the rest, I play the
part of a libertine and treat myself to a long bath in the
guest suite.
Inside, my clock is ticking. Four days before the strike.
Four days and I sit in a bath of lavender oil. It takes me
back to the horror of the impalement, and I puzzle over the
enigma that is the Fear Knight. He is likely being tortured

at this very moment. Why would he trust me with his life on
so thin a plan? Could he possibly care so much for the
people of Heliopolis? Do true servants of the Society exist
now only in the most deplorable form?
After the bath, I stare at my face in the bathroom mirror.
I do not recognize myself. The desert has weathered my
visage and stripped away much of its youth. My right cheek
is sunken and peeling from sunburn. Carefully, I take the
resFlesh oﬀ my left cheek. The burn is livid. Drained of
ﬂuid, it gives the appearance of melted pink wax. It is not
as grotesque as it must have been in the desert, but chunks
of metal are still embedded too deeply in the drooping skin
to be removed by anyone but an expensive surgeon or
carver. The eye has gone smoky white. I am not repulsed. I
always thought Golds who kept their scars to be a bit vain.
But I understand it now. Too much has always been made of
my looks, as if I earned them by virtue of being born.
This I earned. This is mine.
That night, Glirastes’s rose quartz table is set for one. I
eat in silence, catered to by three servants. If they
remember me, they do not show it. My old friend never
comes.
The next morning, I learn he has not returned from his
labor in the city. I spend my time in leisure, walking the
orchard, swimming in his pool, conversing with the Rising
guards, as much as they will talk to a Gold. Most want to
kill me on sight. But I learn their patterns, and I yearn to
investigate Glirastes’s domed workshop, but I dare not.
After lunch, I walk the house, bouncing a rubber ball as I
go, careful to remain frivolous. I let it bounce awkwardly
oﬀ a step and chase the ball down a hallway into his library.
There, I thumb through his dusty books and play games on
a hologrid, and when I tire of them, I make my way up the
spiral staircase of the tower, poking around until I stumble
upon his old golden telescope that looks down at the city.

With a yawn, I look through, and make my ﬁrst
surveillance.
Stretching north nearly as far as the eye can see sprawls
an architect’s delight of basilicas, temples, forums,
triumphal arches, historical columns, amphitheaters, and
the great Hippodrome. Only the distant storm wall does not
shine white in the sun. In the western city, Corinthianinspired oﬀice spires, broken only by parks, viaducts, and
amphitheaters, stretch all the way to the Bay of Sirens. The
mountains cup the fabled city in their loving palms. Their
craggy summits are tipped white with snow and festooned
with gun batteries. Their ranges stretch hundreds of
kilometers, impassable by any land army.
To take the city by conventional means, Atalantia would
lose millions of men she needs for her campaign. Her
chemical option is not so insensible strategically,
considering her losses in the battle on the Ladon.
But it is shortsighted and immoral.
When last I was here, the air above Heliopolis was clear
but for the sparkling of an occasional yacht or policing
units. Now it is mobbed by an ugly ﬂood of heterogenous
military vessels, haulers, and civilian rickshaws. The
boulevards beneath teem with even more traﬀic and
pedestrians. The city is near bursting with wounded and
refugees. Military camps and ﬁeld hospitals cover the parks
and ﬁll amphitheaters where low and high alike once
gathered with chilled wine to watch Sophocles’s tragedies
free of charge. Troops jog through the Via Triumphia where
victorious charioteers would parade their steeds to the wild
acclaim of the crowds.
To the southwest, on the outer limits of the sprawling
city, I see Heliopolis’s spaceport. Beyond the smaller
torchShips and destroyers, dwarﬁng even the mountains,
lies a mound of metal.
The Morning Star.

Thousands of engineers work to repair her hull. Flights
of haulers ferry fresh armaments from the southern missile
factories to the spaceport. They unload the missile boxes on
skiﬀs suspended on gravity cushions to funnel into the
ship’s port side.
Heliopolis is much as one would imagine it to be:
preparing for a siege.
However…Darrow knows he would never survive one.
So I pay close attention to the spaceport. There is an
aberration in the pattern that sticks out like a loose thread.
I look back at the skiﬀs unloading the missiles, use the
telescope’s relative positional measuring system on all forty
of the unloading skiﬀs, yawn, and abandon the telescope
tower for a book of poetry. My mind whirs as I stare at the
words on the page. Those skiﬀ models have a default 0.7meter gravity cushion from the ground. More than half
were at 0.4 meters according to the telescope. I calculate
the volume of the missile boxes, and the mass that the
pilum missiles should make. It does not account for the 0.3meter sag. Not even close. Something else is in them,
something at least ﬁve times as heavy. But what? Full to the
brim, it would take something with a density of at least
twenty grams per cubic centimeter.
There are only a few relevant elements with military
application that are dense enough to ﬁt in the volume of
those missile boxes and have enough mass to account for
the substantial sag in the gravity cushion. Osmium is too
rare here, and to account for the high mass, it would need
to be in its pure state, which would be ridiculous because it
is nearly impossible to machine-form in that state. There’s
plutonium, of course, which could be part of the puzzle, but
why hide plutonium? Why the deception?
I lean toward iridium.

Iridium is a hard transition metal three times as dense as
iron. It is often used in X-ray optics and as a contact metal
because of its resistance to arc erosion. More importantly,
it is used in radioisotope thermoelectric generators
because it can withstand operating temperatures up to
2,000 Celsius. Unless they’ve nonsensically changed the
default gravity cushions on only half the skiﬀs, or unless
Darrow is making substantial repairs to the Morning Star’s
reactors, which I can assume he is not because that does
not explain the deception, he is either building a massive
secondary generator or a sustained EMP device of
unprecedented scale.
I close the poetry book.
That night, Glirastes is absent again. A Thessalonican
Chianti is served with lamb drizzled with rosemary-infused
olive oil. The wine is rancid. I spit it across the table after
my ﬁrst sip. Exeter appears from nowhere. “Is the wine not
to the dominus’s satisfaction?”
“No,” I say, “it is detestable.”
“It is our ﬁnest vintage, dominus. Thessalonica ’35.”
“How embarrassing for your taste buds. Is the cellar in
the same place? I’ll pick my own wine, since you seem
incapable of basic competency.”
I stalk past him and throw open the cellar door, which is
located in the mouth of a freestanding merman statue.
Rounding the corner at the cellar’s bottom stair, I follow
a light to the back and ﬁnd Glirastes waiting for me
amongst dusty wine racks with a bottle of champagne. He
pops it as I enter. “I believe champagne is in order when
one returns from the grave,” he says. His hug is more
sincere this time. He clings to me. “My old young friend,
you’re a sight for weary eyes. Don’t make that face, these
walls down here are quite impenetrable to that little spy
trinket. Quicksilver is such an idiot. Mass-produces

everything, no individual artistry. Very gauche in his spirit
selection as well. We haven’t much time, so let us be
quick.”
I sit and share the champagne and answer his barrage of
questions. When I have ﬁnished, he leans back and traces
the rim of his champagne ﬂute with his pinky. “That is quite
a tale. All that to come here. All that to confront your
nemesis? Didn’t you read the Tragedians, boy? Don’t you
know how this quest for revenge will end? What if he
recognized you!”
“Wrecking balls seldom stop for conversations,” I say.
“Yes. You can practically see that Red girl hanging in his
eyes, can’t you? Gorydamn Nero. Couldn’t just slap her on
the wrist. I blame him for all this. Him and that idiot Fabii.
And that idiot Bellona. Frankly, your ranks are replete with
idiots. So many in fact, one might suspect if they were a
little poorer, a little more victimized, a little more burdened
with trial, they might have had the common sense to band
together instead of sniping each other in an operatic game
of emotional suicide chess. To make matters worse, it
hasn’t changed. Not a bit. They still bicker. Carthii and
Saud. Votum and everyone. And you expect them to hold
hands with the Rim!” He laughs. “You’ve always been a
romantic.”
“I thought it was a fellowship of two,” I reply.
“Oh, shut up. You could have contacted me,” he says,
thinly trying to hide his grief. “You could have let me know
you weren’t dead.”
“You have to understand what I saw.” He raises an
eyebrow, always curious about Palatine gossip, especially
the ﬁrsthand sort. It’s not his most noble quality. “I saw Aja
hacked to ribbons and Octavia ripped here to here.” I trace
the path Darrow’s blade made. “I saw the Jackal’s bombs
detonating, and watched as Darrow pulled his tongue out. I
saw my godfather ally with Darrow for the briefest ﬂicker

to down Lilath au Faran’s ships before they destroyed my
home.”
He shudders.
“I saw all those people with all their plans strangled by
the webs they wove. I wanted out. To his credit, Darrow
spared me, and sent me away with Cassius.”
“All this time, I thought he might have,” Glirastes says. “I
would not have helped him if I really thought he murdered
you.”
I’m not sure if I believe that, but he does. “So I
disappeared,” I say.
“And did you ﬁnd what you were looking for? Did you ﬁnd
peace?”
“It’s not out there. At least not for me. Some men can
stare at their feet and pretend the world isn’t falling apart.
I cannot.”
“And behind the Grimmus banner, you rally? Atalantia is
your savior?” he sneers. “She is a monster. A woman with a
cape of cadavers as long as the Via Gloria. You know that or
you wouldn’t be here.” He squints at me. “She’s going to
use atomics, isn’t she?”
“Chemicals,” I admit.
He grows terribly quiet. “If that is the woman you follow,
then the worlds are already lost.”
“There are certain realities—” I begin.
He interrupts. “Stop. I’ve heard that all before.”
“From yourself?” I ask. “Is that why you helped Darrow?”
“Yes!” he snaps, slamming his glass down so hard on the
table it shatters and opens a gash on his hand. He stares at
the blood seeping out. “Yes. It wasn’t supposed to be that
way. Gold became…cruel after the Fall. Beyond cruel. As if
it was their laxity that led to rebellion. Darrow is right in
some things, you know. The metal miners here barely live

past thirty. And the slaves…they actually call them that
now. Not contractors or pioneers. Slaves.” He shakes his
head. “I just didn’t realize the price my planet…my home
would have to pay for my spasm of hope.”
“Is it worth the price?” I ask.
“What’s the alternative? Atalantia? Purges and camps?
No. I’d rather we all burn nice and quick than line up for
her pleasure.” He stands, ending the conversation. “I know
you mean well. But if I’ve learned anything, meaning well
isn’t enough. Whatever you thought I could do for you, I
can’t do it. I won’t. Nothing good comes of good
intentions.”
He puts a hand on my shoulder as he departs.
I tried to let it be his choice to help me, but in the end he
leaves me no alternative but to force him as my
grandmother taught.
“I was there in Tyche when the water came in,” I lie. He
quarter-turns to me. “Thousands poured to the Water
Colossus to seek its heights for shelter, knowing the work
of Glirastes would give them safety. Glirastes’s genius
would give them shelter. When the wave came in, it
swamped the Colossus. For a moment, I thought it would
pull even it out to sea. But those people were right to
believe in your work. As the waves rolled back, your
Colossus endured, but of the people…nothing remained.
Why do you think Atalantia is using chemicals instead of
nukes? She couldn’t buy you all those years ago. So now
she’ll take all your precious works for herself.”
I return upstairs to ﬁnish my dinner without appetite. My
words will worm their way into Glirastes’s brain. When I
am ﬁnished with the meal, Exeter comes to the table. He
looks at the bottle I brought up. “I trust your choice in wine
was satisfactory?”
“It’s a stubborn vintage.”

“I have faith in it, dominus. And in your discerning taste.
Perhaps a nightcap, of the fortifying variety?”
—
I wake in the night to hear the expected sound of bare feet
in the hallway. There’s a peculiar wheezing sound from my
arm where they injected me with anti-rads. My door opens
and Glirastes stands in the doorway illuminated by the
shadowy light of a green glowlamp. “The spike is frozen. To
them, you’ll appear to be sleeping through the night. I want
to show you something.”
The green light casts eerie shadows on the artifacts
along the walls as Glirastes leads me down a dark hallway.
Rain lashes the windows. Low thunder groans.
Glirastes stops at the end of a hall near a large wooden
door with an old-fashioned lock. He searches a huge ring
for the right key and unlocks it with a satisfying clunk.
Lights blossom in the darkness, and I smile. The room is as
delightful as in memory. Domed with a rendering of deep
space. Books lining every wall. I remember the ﬁrst he gave
me: Silenius’s Meditations. Antiquated machines of distant
ages stand covered in dust. He fusses over the dozen
teacups scattered about the room. “Really should let the
servants in here. But they may twist the wrong knob, then
boom.” He slams a hand on the table. “All dead. Now,
where did I put it? Ah. This way.” Behind a 3-D marble
printer and a statue of himself with an absurdly generous
phallus, he pulls back a canvas covering, unsettling a cloud
of dust, to reveal a model of a sphere city as big as the two
of us put together. Intricate parks and public buildings
wind together, defying gravity as the surface of the city
bends upside down on itself to create the spiral impression
of a human eye. He waves his hand over the pupil, and the

city begins to turn clockwise. He sits in a drawing chair to
watch me walk around the model.
“It is…” I begin, and pretend I cannot ﬁnd the right
words. Of course I remember his favorite poems.
“It is what?” he asks in trepidation.
“Without ﬂaw.”
“Use more sophisticated language.”
I reply:

“Cities and Thrones and Powers
Stand in Time’s eye,
Almost as long as ﬂowers,
Which daily die:
But, as new buds put forth
To glad new men,
Out of the spent and unconsidered Earth,
The Cities rise again.”
“I missed you, lad.” He sighs back in his chair. “I haven’t
had a good critic in years.”
“What is your city called?”
“Oculus.”
I circle the model. “I imagine it’s meant to be in orbit?”
“Yes! Or deep space. I knew you would understand.” He
runs a ﬁnger down a central aerial boulevard. “It was my
last commission before the Fall. Needless to say, there was
not much demand for cities with personality after that.”
“Who commissioned it?”
“Regulus ag Sun, old uppity Quick himself. I sent him a
ﬁnished model just like this one, but we never broke
ground. It was to be my greatest work. One I’ll never see
completed now. You might have noticed there is something

whimsical about it.” He smiles. “He asked me to build a city
for a child who had never seen anything else. Of course it
was just an expression, but I took it to heart. I based it oﬀ
of your eye, in fact. The only child to seldom annoy me. Of
course I never had children. Didn’t have the time or the
inclination, but I always assumed, vainly, that mine would
be as curious as you were.”
He must be shaken deeply to presume to say that aloud
to me.
It really is one of the most marvelous of his creations,
this oculus. For all its grace, it speaks of wild, hopeful
ambition.
“Darrow didn’t even look twice at it when he came here,”
Glirastes murmurs. “He sees me as nothing more than a
tool. I suppose it is human nature. Golds saw me as a
novelty to ﬂaunt. Mids let their jealousy label me a social
climber. The lows loved me, then hated me, then loved me.
All of them thought they understood my work. And maybe
they did. But only you really ever understood me.”
“You were the one who told me a great artist can never
be fully understood,” I reply. “Even you must suﬀer the
tedium of a medium.”
“Did I ever tell you the story of the blind Copper?”
“I don’t believe so.” Of course, I know the story. It was in
his Securitas ﬁle, gleaned from his own journals, and was
the key to my story of the waves and the Colossus. I forgo a
stool and sit on the ﬂoor, just as I did as a child. He wants
to see me as a curious boy, not a scarred, cunning judge.
“When I was a young apprentice, my Master Maker told
me of a Copper with a disease of the eye. One which
surpassed even our civilization’s ingenuity to cure. When
he felt his vision ﬁnally fading, he went to a bench and sat
before the Library of Heliopolis. Each day he went, and his
world grew smaller and darker until one day his sight was

gone entirely. For years afterward he would go to that
bench and sit, and in the darkness he could still see the
green copper dome, the Philosopher Kings in all their
marbled glory, the Water Gardens and the Orbital Torch. Of
all the things he wanted to remember, it was the beauty of
architecture.” He sighs. “My master told me the story to
impress the importance of our craft.
“I was a busy mind. Busier still when I found my ﬁrst
taste of celebrity. Twice a week, I would attend the dinner
parties of Aureate. It might seem common to you,” he says
with small embarrassment. “But imagine what it meant to
me. An Orange from the Sledge. A guest of Votum and
Augustans and even Lunes. I was treated with dignity by
the ﬁnest company in the worlds. The Sovereign herself
called me a genius. In their names, I built monuments,
libraries, cities.
“Yet at the unveiling of my greatest work…”
“The Water Colossus.”
“Correct.” He continues. “I felt empty standing there
listening to the rich tell me what beauty I had made. I could
see it. But I could not feel it. I don’t know why, but I
remembered the story of that Copper. I sought out my
master, and discovered after many weeks of searching that
the blind Copper still lived.
“I went to visit him. He was a ward of the state by then,
living to die in a government Loyalty Ward. I asked him
about the story, and he laughed. ‘I didn’t go for the
building,’ he said, ‘I went to feed the pigeons, and watch
the children play in the water, and the families line up for
sweets, and to see boys ﬂirt with girls.”
Glirastes says nothing, and for a long time, we listen to
the rain on the windows.
“He went to see life,” Glirastes says at last. “From that
moment to this, that is why I make—to see the life that

grows around the dead stone I stack. For what is a building
without its audience? What is a city without its people?
Now…” He traces the veins in his hands. “Now that life
disappears. Those people become dust. Soon there will be
nothing left but my stone and the bones of my city.” His
glassy eyes ﬁnd mine. “I’m not a traitor, no matter what
you think. No matter what Atalantia calls me. I thought
Darrow’s crusade impractical, but inevitable. When he took
the planet, I helped him, because I thought I could protect
life. I failed. I failed. So terribly. He told me he would only
use the Storm Gods for electrical interference and cloud
cover, but he lied and now Tyche is gone.”
His eyes follow motes of dust ﬂoating through the light.
His robes make soft sounds as he leans forward and runs
his hands over his head.
“I’ve been building something with his engineers.
Something that will help his army escape the planet they
broke. But even if he does escape before Atalantia attacks,
what will become of us? Are the buildings to be saved,
because they are rare and beautiful, and the people put
upon the pale because they are common?” His hands drop
from his head and he looks up at me like a drowning old
man. “I don’t know what to do, Lysander. Tell me. What am
I to do?”
“You can trust in me,” I reply.
“The last time I trusted a man, Tyche was swallowed by
the sea.”
“Then trust the boy you knew.”
His eyes are forlorn as they search mine. “Is he still alive,
after all this horror?”
“Yes,” I say, reaching up to fold his thin hands in mine.
“And he needs your help. The people must show Atalantia
that they did not abet the enemy. That they did not simply
wait to be saved. They saved themselves. I promise she will

see that. I promise we will show that to the worlds with
spectacle they have never before seen.”
There’s a knock at the door. “Begone, Exeter!”
Exeter enters anyway. “Apologies, sir, but the dominus
requested a nightcap of the fortifying variety.” He strides
into the room, followed by the entirety of Glirastes’s
remaining staﬀ.
“What is the meaning of this?” Glirastes shouts. “Can’t
you see we are—”
Exeter goes swiftly to a knee and bends his head to me.
The lowColor staﬀ join him. “The Heir of Silenius has
returned,” Exeter proclaims. “The loyal stand ready, my
Sovereign.”
I take Glirastes’s hands in mine. “There are more men
and women in this city who believe in the order of the
Society more than the empty promises of the Rising. I do
not know them. But you know them, and they know you.
Pick the most loyal and the most inﬂuential of each Color,
and tell them the Heir of Silenius has returned. He has not
forgotten them, and he asks them to join him in taking back
their rightful home from the Martian marauders. Not for
Votum. Not for Atalantia. But for Heliopolis and the
Society.”

***Lyria“What do you think?” Volga

asks me. Sleet rolls in
from the sea to pour down on us. We crouch low behind a
jagged scree of rocks, peering through scavenged oculars
at a small ﬁshing town. Several hundred homes lie
scattered on the coastline like raisins in crumbling pastry.
The weathered buildings are made from local rock and
domed with metal roofs capped with winter sludge. Warm
light glows from slits in their shutters. I scan the air for the
Vox patrols that have been looking for us over the past
weeks. The sea bucks and heaves, rocking the few small
boats left in the harbor. Nothing rides the wind but sea
hawks and gulls. I imagine them rushing home, just like the
villagers, before the squall comes in full.
I wish we were in one of those little houses, maybe
sitting by the ﬁre with big blankets and socks. Not the thin
polymer socks they gave out at the camp. The wool ones
they gave us in the Telemanus household, so thick you can
curl your toes in them.

“Look at that, the Red was right,” Victra says. She jabs
her ﬁnger at three long metal poles rising up from a gray
building hunched along the promontory north of the town.
It looks like some old military installation. Several old ﬂiers
are parked in front of it, and from the snow piling up, they
look like they haven’t been moved in days. “There is a radio
tower here.”
I could feel its vibrations through the parasite. Growing
in intensity as we crept nearer across the highlands. Aside
from those vibrations, the parasite has been quiet since I
saw Harmony. But by the fact that Victra even listened to
me, I know she knows what’s in my skull.
“All this trepidation is giving me cankers,” she says.
“Much as I’d like to give birth in a freezing glen like a sow,
it would be a dreary inconvenience if wolves ate my little
girl before she could even walk. We use the array to boost
our signal, we’re in my fortresses at Hippolyte or Attica by
tomorrow morning.”
As if to taunt her, the highland wolves howl in the
distance. Or is it just the wind? She looks more annoyed
than afraid. To be fair, I’d pity the wolves that tried to make
a meal out of this woman. She’s tougher than nature itself.
Nine months pregnant, she’s set a pace I can barely match.
“I was not asking you,” Volga says in exhaustion.
“Of course, why ask the Peerless Scarred who has led
two Iron Rains when there’s a perfectly ignorant mine lass
to consult for strategic advice?”
“Because you are reckless!” Volga says. “You act like you
carry an army everywhere. You would not make it two days
as a freelancer. Now be quiet! Lyria found this place, so
Lyria’s opinion matters more than yours right now.”
Victra sulks back against the rocks, disturbing the snow
in a blackberry shrub above her. Even after two weeks of
plodding through rain and snow and sleeping under the

shelter of trees, she manages to look glamorous. Her jade
earrings, which she refuses to remove, blaze against the
snow. Meanwhile, I think I’ve somehow got ﬂeas.
By her count, Victra should have had the baby weeks
ago, though how many she doesn’t say. I’d pull it out of her
myself if I were sure her private bits wouldn’t bite my hand
oﬀ at the elbow. “I nearly wish you’d let the Red Hand ﬁnd
me. Would have been preferable to watching you two
bumble about like drunk mummers as I starve to death.”
“You ate all the rations,” I snap, scratching my head in
irritation.
“I’m eating for two. You’re barely one.”
“And you’re the one the Red Hand wants,” I reply. “How
many of their mines did you own again?”
“Not enough apparently.”
“We are all hungry and frustrated…” Volga tries. Fig’s
black orb is nestled under one of her big arms. Though she
lost the pack of money in a river crossing, she hasn’t let the
orb out of her sight since she stole it from the wreckage.
“You should have let me try to kill that deer,” Victra
sneers at Volga. “Even carrying around this gorydamn
asteroid in my stomach, I could have stalked it better than
you. Can’t hunt. Can’t start a ﬁre. Can’t navigate by
starlight. I swear, you are by far the worst Obsidian I have
ever had the displeasure of laying eyes upon. Have you two
never been outside before?”
“You told us we couldn’t have a ﬁre,” I say. “Because of
the trackers.”
“Immaterial. It’s your rank ignorance that matters.”
Volga considers making a comment, but somehow her
patience prevails. “I will go down and talk to them,” she
says. Victra and I laugh, then glare at each other. Volga
looks oﬀended. “I will call Ephraim. He will come for me.”

“You might not give the best ﬁrst impression,” I say
gently.
Victra snorts. “She means you look like an electrocuted
rock monster.”
Volga touches her huge head of hair. “It is the
humidity…”
“And there is no way I let you call Ephraim fucking Horn.
I will go and call my legions in Attica and Hippolyte,” Victra
says.
“They’ll recognize you! You’re one of the most famous
people in the worlds.”
“Yes, I am, aren’t I? They’ll know I can pay.”
“What if there’s Red Hand there?” I ask.
“We’ve watched for three hours.”
“Well, they don’t exactly wave ﬂags, do they?”
“We lost those trackers days ago. Lost the appetite after I
visited their camp.” She did, killing four of the ones with
nose mods before running back to us cackling. “For all they
know, we’re forty klicks west of here. I don’t see any
materiel or transports. If there’s any here, we kill them.”
She fondles the hilt of her razor under her coat like it’s a
bloodydamn baby itself. “It’s not like we need to hold a
town council. We just need that transmitter. You’re being
entirely overcautious.”
The fact that she’s even letting us have a voice shows
how far her pregnancy has progressed. It’ll come any
moment.
I look down at her belly. “You sure you’re up to that sort
of thing…”
“I’m pregnant, not an invalid.”
“You just don’t like people being decent to you, do you?”
“Blister. That’s what you are. Red, puﬀy, and irritating.
I’m going to go piss, then I’m going to go down there and

use that transmitter to call my men. Can’t reach my main
force in Hippolyte, by the look of that army. But I’ve a full
legion at my fortress in Attica. Fifty thousand of my house
troops. If they were doing their jobs, they’d be scouring
this countryside by now. But I’ll roust those lazy piglets,
and we’ll be having baths by tomorrow morning, ladies.
Then supper till you’re both fat as hens. Then back to the
kidnapper you go. And I get my loves. And gear up for war.”
I glare after her as she stumbles away across the rocks.
“A bath does sound nice,” I say.
“Ephraim would come for me,” Volga repeats. I
remember Ephraim’s face when he heard the Sovereign
had Volga. But would he try for her twice? I give up
guessing and glare at Victra.
“You are doing a good thing,” Volga says. “Just think
about having that bath and a real meal.”
“Oh, leave oﬀ. How do you not choke her to death?”
Sleet gathers on her eyebrows as she considers it. “Two
nights ago, I thought about it after she called me a geriatric
walrus. But I do not think it would work. She fought beside
Seﬁ herself. And Darrow. No, she is too much for me, even
now. Unless I was able to shoot her from afar.”
“That was a joke.”
“Oh.” Her eyes ﬂick left. “As was mine.”
“Right.” I glance back at the village. There’s little
movement. Likely all huddled inside eating dinner what
with this weather. “I don’t like it.”
There’s the sounds of rocks moving behind us. We turn to
see Victra stumbling back, fresh annoyance on her face.
“Of all the gory inconveniences…” She looks up at the
weather. With the sleet gathering on her cheeks, and her
hair matted back, she makes me think of a statue I saw in
Hyperion. Lady Victory, the wife of Silenius the
Lightbringer. “Sorry, ladies,” she says with a wry grin. She

holds up glistening ﬁngers. “Little monster’s coming. Looks
like she’s a mover.”
“That settles it,” I say, knowing we can’t risk going into
the old installation. But we need shelter. Me probably even
more than Victra’s newborn will. Thing will probably come
out with fangs and a silk cloak.
I rush down the scree. At the edge of the village, a
stooped old Red chisels ice oﬀ the roof of his stone house. I
don’t see anyone else out, and his house looks large enough
and far oﬀ enough from the others to not draw too many
eyes. “ ’Lo,” I call. He doesn’t hear me over the howl of the
wind. “ ’Lo!” He turns to squint down at me through a snow
mask. Then he sees the pistol in my hand. “I need your
help, brother.”
“You askin’ or tellin’, lass?”
“Tellin’, I suppose.”
He awkwardly climbs oﬀ the roof. “You been out in that?”
“Who’s in the house?” I ask.
“None your.” He looks to the hills.
“Scorcher says it is my.”
“Me kids,” he says. He nods to the sky. “Saw the ﬁreﬁght.
Who else you got out there?”
I wave Volga and Victra down the hill. They slump
forward in the gloom, sticking behind shrubs to keep out of
sight of the rest of the town. Volga is less than polite. She
lifts the man by his collar and breaches the house holding
her riﬂe like a pistol in one hand and the man dangling in
her other. Victra and I follow.
A young girl, maybe twelve, and a boy of sixteen stare at
us as we come in, wet and armed. The boy bolts upright
from the table and grabs a heavy mug, nearly spilling his
soup. The girl stares at us from the kitchen, trembling. Her
hands knot the corners of her grease-stained apron.

“Alred, Brea, all’s well!” the man says. “All’s well. These
are…new friends.”
The boy holds his mug tight, looking between his father
and the huge women who’ve got his father at gunpoint. I
kick the door shut and start drawing the curtains.
“Volga, set him down,” Victra says.
“We do not know him.”
“You’re in his home. Be polite. They’re just Reds, no
oﬀense.”
Volga warily sets the Red man down. He smiles
nervously. “Strong lass there.”
“How quaint,” Victra says magnanimously of the small
home. She has to bend to not hit her head on the timber
crossbeams. “Apologies for the intrusion. I desire hot water,
clean cloth, soap, pen, paper, and the hardest liquor you
can provide. Fear not, this won’t be a hostile interaction
unless your manners become as dreadful as the ones to
which we’ve been reduced. By tomorrow morning, you will
be one million credits richer, and we will be gone.” Volga’s
already searching the house for weapons and coms. “Take
oﬀ that absurd domino. Your mask, man. And your name.”
Volga ﬁnds two old riﬂes in the cupboard as well as a
pistol. She disassembles them in three easy movements and
takes small pieces from each for her pockets.
“Cormac O’Vadros.” The man pulls oﬀ his snow-crusted
mask. Despite his shock of white hair, he’s not quite so old
as I thought. But he is stooped, and his right leg seems
janky. Maybe artiﬁcial. Deep lines groove his bearded face.
He takes in Victra, her bulging waistline, and nods.
“ ’Course. Alred, boil water. Brea, be a good lass and get
the linens from your room.” Volga follows the girl into the
other room as if she were going to get rocket launchers.
Cormac gestures to my gun with a twinkle in his eye. “Big
gun for a little lass. Think you need it?”

“Depends on you.”
“Not what I meant.” He nods to Volga and Victra. “You
got them. Whatchu need that for?”
I keep the pistol anyway. “Bedroom?”
“Thought you’d never ask.” He leads me across the small
common room to one of the home’s two bedrooms as Volga,
ﬁnished with her search for now, tries to help Victra out of
her wet clothing. Victra slaps her hands away. “Just mind
our hosts.” She follows us into the bedroom and starts
undressing. Cormac watches without expression. Volga
comes in, picks him up with one hand and shoves him out
the door, back into the common room.
“You expecting visitors?” she asks.
“In this squall?” he says, laughing, but his eyes dart to
his children in worry. “Naw. No visitors.”
“Good, we will be cozy then.”
The sound of their voices muﬄe as I close the door to a
crack. The bedroom is small and simple. A narrow bed with
heavy quilts lies in the corner next to a coil heater. A pair of
old miner boots like my pa’s hang on the wall along with a
rusted slingBlade. There’s a small crochet on one of the
bedside stools and a little glass ﬁlled with holly and red
winter berries. Must be his wife left it there.
“Where’s your wife?” I ask Cormac, opening the door
halfway.
“She’s out to sea till week’s end with the rest o’ my kin.
Not much for boats meself. I tend the homestead.”
Volga takes over the questioning as I shut the door again.
Victra tosses her clothes into the corner. I am startled by
the sight of her body. Her back is heavily muscled and
broad. It’s a history of scars, including two bullet holes
along her spine. More scars cover her arms, her buttocks,
her powerful thighs. More old wounds than a whole
drillteam. Respect.

“Have the contractions started?” I ask, handing her pen
and paper I found on the counter.
“You japing?” She grins. “Lost my mucus plug days back.
Been having contractions the last thirty klicks.”
“You didn’t say anything.”
“You two worry like hens. Thought I could hold it till we
got to the transmitter, but you two are right. Big building.
Anything could be in there.” She starts writing on the
paper, whistling as she does. “You ever been pregnant?”
she asks.
“I’m shy nineteen.”
“Well, you are Red, anyway….”
“It’s like getting punched by a Telemanus. Got a real
world breaker in here.” She leans naked against the wall,
not a lick given for modesty. I strip oﬀ the top quilt and
make up the bed. She looks up from her writing in amused
contempt. “What in Jove’s name are you doing?”
“Makin’ up the bed for you.”
She goes back to writing. “Why?”
“Thought you might want to lay down?”
“I am daughter of Julii,” she says without looking up from
the paper. “Not some mine wench who gives birth on her
back. I stand when I deliver. All I need from you is silence
and absence and that water and alcohol to wash my hands.
Be polite to our hosts, please.”
Chuﬀed, I slam the door behind me.
In the common room, the water is beginning to boil on
the thermal stove. Alred, the boy, glares at me as I ask him
to take it into the bedroom. He’s a gangly one with a
temper. Reminds me of my own brother Dagan. His sister
brings her linens out of her room. Small and elﬁn-faced,
she wears the skirts of a woman and a thick shawl. She
shuﬄes nervously as I smile at her.

“What’s your name?” I ask her. “Was it Brea?”
She nods.
“Sorry if we’re giving you a fright. Promise we’re good
folk. Just a little lost is all. Where’s your ma?”
She looks at the ground.
“She’s mute,” her father says from the table, where he
leans back sipping ale from his mug. “Brea, come here,
love.” The girl goes and stands next to him. He kisses the
back of her head and gives me a grimace. “Been that way
for years. Ever since her ma…” He squeezes her. She looks
anything but comfortable.
There’s shouting as Alred delivers the water and booze.
He comes back from Julii’s tirade ﬂushed red, with a note
from Victra. It’s just ﬁfty lines of numbers.
“What’s this?” I call.
“Cryptogram,” she shouts. “Best I could come up with on
short notice. Give it to Volga. She can use the array’s main
uplink to send it. But not while I’m in labor. I need a
bodyguard.”
“I could take it,” I say, peeking through the door.
“Do you know how to force link to the holoNet and send a
private encoded message?” I say nothing. “No, so stop
trying to prove yourself and let the freelancer earn her
keep.”
I mutter curses as I cross the room to give Volga her
instructions and the cryptogram. “Ah, a cryptogram,” she
says, one eye on the Reds. I don’t like the look of Cormac
much either. “Oh, ﬁfty lines. She did this in her head?”
“Apparently.”
“Wow.”
“Yeah, she knows.”
Volga tucks it away and I schlep over to the table to
twiddle my thumbs. “Said your name is Cormac?” Volga

asks the man from the door. She leans against it like a
sentry on duty.
“That’s right, love. You got some good Common on you.”
“Why shouldn’t I?” she asks.
“Didn’t mean nothin’ by it. Sorry. Always runnin’ me
gob.” He winces and sips from his mug.
He’s far younger than I thought he was even on second
inspection. Not an old man at all. Maybe thirty. Why’s his
hair so white? His hands are heavy and scarred. Eyes
blood-red and set in a passive, kind face with a natural
frown. I tap my foot in agitation. I don’t like him one bit.
“I am Volga, this is Lyria,” Volga says neutrally. “We’re
not going to hurt you. I promise. We only need a place for
the night. She’s in labor.”
“Thought Golds hatched out of big metal eggs.”
“They do not.”
He smiles. “Joke. You could have asked nicely. Woulda
put you up. Be criminal to turn out a full-on woman in this.”
His eyes dart to the drapes over the windows.
“Well, you see…” Volga begins.
I interrupt her. “Where you from, Cormac?”
He sighs. “Can me kids go to their room? They don’t
need to be around women like you.” He nods to our guns.
Volga looks ashamed.
“Just the little one,” she says. “The boy stays where we
can see him.”
Cormac’s son drags a chair close to the ﬁre and sits
staring at it with his arms crossed. Brea looks at us, to her
father. “Go on,” he says with a little smile. “Brea. Go.” She
looks at the ground and slips away to the room, closing the
door with barely a sound.
Cormac sighs. “Addled girl, but sweet. Appreciate the
kindness.” His chair creaks as he leans back in it. “There

was some men lookin’ for you. But I reckon you know that.
Bad sort.”
“Red Hand?” I ask.
“That’s right,” he says with a solemn face. “Lookin’ for a
Gold, they said. Victra au Julii. Didn’t say anything about
the two of you.” Volga meets my eyes. “That’s her, ain’t it?
The Julii? They showed us a holo. If they ﬁnd out you were
here…”
“They won’t,” Volga says. “We will not endanger your
family.”
“We already have,” I say. Cormac and I know the rules.
“What’s done’s done,” Cormac says. “Red Hand don’t
trouble us much, being as we’re clan of the Reaper, but
since the Alltribe started kicking in their teeth, they come
down the coast more often. They’ll butcher the village for
this. Anyone else see you come in?”
I shake my head, watching him very carefully. “We just
need to use your transmitter. Reach Julii’s people and it’s
like we were never here. Can you help us with that?”
“Yut,” he says. “Got the code to the building, I do. You
wanna go now?”
Seeing something I don’t, Volga lets her ﬁnger click the
safety oﬀ her riﬂe. Her voice goes deep and husky. “You
legion?”
He chuckles. “Fourth. Formerly.”
“Why formerly? War’s still on.”
He pulls up his right leg and sets it on the table, jerking
his pants up to show a clunky artiﬁcial limb. “Got this baby
in the Rat War. Now I’m just a ﬁsherman. Speakin’ o’
which, we got some extra stew and bread if you’re hungry.”
My stomach growls, but it doesn’t seem smart to take
food from someone we don’t know. Not with the Red Hand
crawlin’ about. “You think I poisoned me stew before you
came in here?” he asks. “That’s some swell foresight I got.

Go on. I’ll sit here, hands where you can see ’em. Even if I
was the Fury herself, doubt I’d try much with an Obsidian
and a Peerless under me roof with me children.”
—
Warm and ﬁlled with soup and fresh bread, I watch Cormac
ﬂirt with Volga. He’s tied her about his ﬁnger with Rat War
stories. He seems nice as they come, but so was Ephraim.
Volga peeks in periodically on Victra like a worrying maid,
and paces as if it was her baby about to be delivered. She
only sits back at the table with Cormac and me when Victra
yells something with a lot of syllables at her.
Victra’s second stage of labor is not long in lasting. The
storm comes in full outside as I bring her a glass of water.
She chugs it down in one gulp. Sleet clatters its claws
against the window. “How are our hosts?”
“I think the girl’s sleeping. Boy’s just stewin’, and
Cormac’s spinning stories to Volga now.”
“You trust him?” Victra asks.
“No. Don’t know him. I say we tie him up.”
“This is my planet,” she says. “I don’t fear a man and two
children.”
“But you got a blood war on you. You know well as I do
what that means.” She doesn’t dismiss me this time.
“If only the world still had manners.” She sighs longingly.
“That’ll be all, thank you.”
I don’t leave.
“You know, I’m not an idiot,” I say. “I’ve seen more babies
born than you have. Delivered half a dozen myself.”
She crosses her arms and leans against the wall. Still
naked. Her skin lit ruby by the heater’s glowing coils. “Let
me guess, it’s a tribal tradition.”

“That’s right.” I cross my arms. “Me ma taught me, and
her ma taught her.”
“My mother taught me how to blockade a planet with
nothing but asteroids and gravity haulers,” she replies.
“And how useful is that now?”
“I’m in labor. Please spare me the recitation of your
culture’s antiquated but treasured ways. Shut the door
behind you. Volga is like a wounded puppy.”
I set my shoulders square up with her. “All’s I’m saying is
it’s at least several…or more weeks late…right? You said
that yourself. You might need help.”
“All my babies are fashionably late,” she replies. She
sighs when she sees I’m not leaving. “You deliver that blind
one? The one in the Citadel?”
“His name’s Liam.”
“Was he blind at birth or did you boggle it up?”
“Tryin’ to make me cry and run away?” I ask. She was.
Words don’t stab so deep as they used to. “He was
premature. And yeah. I was there. I cut the lifestring with
my own hands.”
“Lifestring? Quaint. Your sister didn’t cut it herself?” she
asks in surprise.
“You lot do that?”
She frowns. “Why wouldn’t we?”
“I just thought you had doctors. Morphone. Crystal
glasses to sip from.”
“Please. Only Pixies use morphone and the only person I
had in my room when I gave birth to my three girls is the
man that put them inside me.” She softens and laughs.
Maybe she realizes we’ve got something in common after
all. “Hilarious really. I’ve seen that man pull a knife out of
his own eye and keep running. I’ve seen him face down a
Stained and smile. But he was shaking like a leaf soon as

he saw me dilate. Like he’s never been down there before.
Men. If I asked him to cut the cord, he’d probably faint. It’s
the mother’s job. You should know that.”
“My sister chose who got to cut it,” I say. “It’s an honor.”
“Oh please. It may seem insigniﬁcant, but it’s enfeebling.
It’s saying she’s too weak to do it herself. It’s important to
ﬁnish the things you start, Blister. Remember that when
you have a little squirt. What statement does it make to
your baby if you let someone else do it? Lying there with
women sopping your brow with wet cloths and preening
over you like you’re a plague victim?” She wrinkles her
nose and juts her jaw upward. “Tigresses don’t need
nursemaids. Neither should we.”
“My sister wasn’t weak.”
“Maybe not. But she let others convince her she was.”
“You do realize we’re not all you.”
“I’m dreadfully aware of that.”
“Act all high and mighty. Fact is you can aﬀord to be
brave. If that’s what you wanna call it. Bet you had doctors
on standby. A whole team, right? It was bloody scary seeing
my sister screamin’ like that, not knowing if she would die.
No blood bags, no plasma.”
“Did she hemorrhage?” Victra asks.
I nod. “I didn’t know someone had that much blood.”
Victra says nothing. “I loved her so much. You know? I was
afraid. My hands were shakin’ on the scissors so bad I
thought I’d take out my own eye. Sister’s bleedin’ there, I
thought they’d shoo me out. But all those women were
looking at me, waiting for me to do my part. And she was
smiling, pale as milk. Of all those women, she chose me.
Me.” I shake my head. “It doesn’t mean you’re weak to ask
for help. But we’ll do it your way.”
I head to the door.

“Harmony has reason to hate me, and you,” she says. I
stop and turn slightly. “My mother knew of a radiation leak
in her clan’s mine. Deeming it advantageous from a tax
perspective, she chose not to make immediate repairs.
Radiation medication was distributed to the Gammas via
the Laureltide boxes. As I understood it, the intent was for
them to sell it to the other clans. Instead, the Gammas
hoarded it while the others died due to tribal grudges. I
thought my mother’s plans derailed. Then she told me that
their greed was exactly according to plan. I remember her
words to this day. ‘They’ll be too busy hating each other to
ever hate us.’ She came down to distribute medicine
herself a month later. Beniﬁcent.”
“And you just let it happen?” I ask, unsurprised by the
cruelty of the logic.
“I wasn’t who I am now. Why didn’t you tell Volga to
shoot Harmony? She killed your family. Was it because you
thought I would kill Volga before she could pull the
trigger?”
“Would you have?”
“Yes. I protect mine above all else, because no one else
ever does. So?”
I discovered the truth to her words in my cell.
I’ve chewed on the question she asks for days as we
scrambled across the highlands. I didn’t know at the time
why I told Volga not to shoot. There was too much anger
and confusion to really suss it. But it wasn’t fear. “Harmony
will pay the debt she owes me,” I say. “Not your baby.”
She measures me a long time before speaking. “Revenge
is best dealt with a patient hand. With what Fig gave you
when she died, you won’t have to wait long.”
“What is it?” I ask.
“I don’t know, not entirely. But it was what made Fig…
diﬀerent. I am diﬀerent. I know that. I had things you

didn’t. But I saw evil too. Only diﬀerence is you saw the
bottom, I saw the top. I wasn’t born the woman I am. I
made me. That’s the problem with your people. You’re
arrogant. So busy preaching you need a clan to do
everything. But you take the clan away, and you fall apart.
Like you did in that cell. So easy to blame others for failing
you, for leaving you, for mistreating you.” She sets her
hands on her belly, grimacing at the pain as a spasm
ﬂickers across it. “Some things are about the power of one.
With what you have in your head, you need to know that.
Now, if you can exist without tormenting me with sympathy,
I’ll show you what a woman can do by herself. But ﬁrst, be
a dear, and tell Volga to tie up our hosts.” She smiles
nastily. “As an unctuous girl once said: we don’t know
them.”
—
Victra hunches over as the storm rattles the windows,
consumed with and by her labor so that nothing exists in
the world except the life inside her. Her triceps ﬂex as her
hands grip her muscled thighs. Her feet are planted on the
stone ﬂoor over a thin layer of linens, like she’s about to
take ﬂight. Her razor waits by her foot.
She is not invulnerable like I thought. She feels the pain.
Sweat beads on her upper lip and dangles there, dropping
only when a low moan escapes her. It melts into the sound
of the storm as it howls through the chimney in the
common room. She rolls her head like a fever victim,
breathing heavily, scraping her feet on the ground. Muscles
spasm in her lower back and around her taut belly. A huge
contraction racks her, forcing her to a quarter squat. She
tenses there, exhaling a low, primal moan that lasts and
lasts until a gush of liquid ruptures out from between her
legs and becomes a slow dribble. A tuft of matted hair

peeks out. She brings her right hand back behind and
between her legs, her left to the front to spread herself as
she continues to push. The crown of the baby’s head juts
through, trickling liquid onto the ﬂoor.
Then she brings both hands back around onto her thighs
and crouches a little lower for the ﬁnal eﬀort. The baby’s
whole head is hanging out. With another sustained push, its
shoulders slip through and a purple mass of ﬂesh spurts
out.
She brings her arms down and catches the baby at the
base of its skull, supporting it as she sweeps it upright
while falling to her knees in a motion both complex and
instinctive. She sorts the lifestring from the baby’s neck as
it begins to gurgle, and then cups it in her arms. Victra
brings her mouth to her baby’s face, sucks to clear the
mouth and nose, and then spits on the ﬂoor. The baby is
blotched and viscous and alive. Its eyes are clamped shut
against the dim light of the room. It cries until it ﬁnds her
nipple, then takes it in its mouth and, cocooned in the arms
of its wet, scared mother, grows still.
Victra sways there, in a world of two, rocking the baby so
tenderly, so intimately, with such encompassing love that I
am unable to look away. They begin to pulse, to throb with
color, the warmth inside them or maybe the emotions in me
triggering the parasite so that their thermal heat glows in
the coolness of the room.
“It’s a boy, Sevro,” Victra’s glowing mouth whispers.
“You guessed right.”
And for a moment, as I watch, as I see the heat that
makes their bodies, the vibrations that form her words, I
believe the hero of my brothers can hear his wife, wherever
he might be. Just as I believe deep down I could feel the
death of Aengus and Dagan and Liam, the last of my family.
Neither time nor space can sever the strands of life
between those we love, not really. It is not the parasite

telling me this. It is my heart. In the room, I feel my father
and mother, my sister and my brothers. The joy we had is
no lesser for having ended in horror. It is not gone, as I
thought it was. It is here. In these moments that are larger
than the world itself. They were alive. They lived. They
were loved.
“Come say hello,” Victra says.
I am startled back into the room. “Me?”
“I thought you weren’t an idiot.”
She leans the baby close to me as he snuﬄes at her
breast. I take his little hand and smile as his ﬁngers curl
around mine. He is slightly larger than my brothers were,
but those eyes that will mark him diﬀerent from them are
closed. The winged sigils on his hands are bone, not yet
coated with gold. He is just a child.
“Hello, little haemanthus,” I say, just as I once said to my
sister’s children as they took their ﬁrst breaths, “welcome
to the worlds.”
I leave Victra alone. The door bumps against Volga, who
waits outside with a blank look on her face. I close the door
behind me and nod. She breaks into a smile, as confused as
I am to ﬁnd herself celebrating the birth of Julii’s child.
Through the cracked door I hear Victra whisper a
benediction to her child: “My son…” Her voice falters. “My
son, you are of the gens Julii. Your ancestors looked to the
night sky when there was nothing but drips of light in the
darkness. Roads they built to stitch that light together. You
are also of the gens Barca, guardians of the human race.
You will be hated and you will hate. You will love and be
loved. You will fall and you will rise. Never will you know
peace, but you will know joy. You may even sail the dark
seas in ships and lie beside nymphs in alien woods. You are
your father’s son. Forever my boy. Forever our Ulysses.”

***Lyriaof the soup and bread at the
kitchen table. Ulysses is swaddled in her arms. The storm’s
still howling outside, having lasted through the night. In a
few hours it’ll be daylight. Volga and I stay awake on
coﬀee. We all know we can’t stay here long. If we keep
Cormac and his family inside after the storm dies, it’ll
arouse suspicion from the townfolk, and there’s no telling
which of them will call the Red Hand. We have to be gone
as soon as possible.
Volga and I want to wait, fearing Victra isn’t strong
enough. She looks paler than I’ve ever seen her, and even if
Golds are Golds, they’re still human. She needs to rest. We
manage to convince her to let Volga go to the transmitter
now. Cormac oﬀers to take her, but Victra doesn’t want the
man out in the village. His son volunteers. But that’s just
the same. Volga can ﬁnd it on her own. Better they stay tied
at the table.
ICTRA EATS WHAT’S LEFT

I stand with her in the open doorway. Volga squints into
the swirling snow, then back at Ulysses in the crook of
Victra’s arm as his mother ﬁnishes oﬀ a heel of bread.
Volga’s left Fig’s black orb by the ﬁre. “I wish I could have
watched,” she says, mildly jealous. “Why did she let you?”
“Think she wanted to teach me a lesson.”
“I’ve never seen a baby born.”
“Never?”
She shakes her head.
I pat her arm. “You’ll get your chance one day if you like.
It is something.”
“No,” Volga says. “They made me without a womb.” She
sets her hand on her riﬂe.
“You know with enough money, bet they can change that
now.”
“Twenty million,” Volga says. “Twenty million is what it
takes.” I tilt my head. Is that why she’s been doing all this?
Is that what Fig’s bounty means to her? I feel a sudden
heaviness in my heart for the big woman. Not just because
of the confession, but because she chose to trust me with it.
She smiles and pats my shoulder, closer than we were even
the night before. “I will be back soon. Guard them well.”
I watch Volga disappear into the snow and close the door.
She is a good person. Well, maybe not good. But what is
good? She was raised by a bastard, but my father was a
bastard too. Not always, and not to me, but I know how he
hoarded our Laureltide boxes. How other families perished
while ours grew strong. All my family’s joy grew in the
shadow of that truth, whether I want to admit it or not.
Maybe it wasn’t my mother’s death that broke the man.
Maybe it was his conscience.
Victra tries her best to stay awake after Volga leaves, but
after the pace she set through the highlands, and the labor,
it seems even a Gold has limits. She keeps falling asleep at

the table. I convince her to go rest with Ulysses, telling her
I’ll keep watch. By the time she wakes, her men will be on
their way here. She smiles at that, no doubt thinking of her
daughters, her husband.
I sit at the table with my gun in my lap and glance
sideways at the orb. The ﬂames from the hearth ﬁre bend
along its glossy surface. I pick it up and run my hands over
the smooth metal. Its whispers tickle the back of my mind.
What’s inside you?
Across the table, Cormac yawns, tied to his chair by
Volga’s knots. His son, Alred, sleeps on a blanket by the
ﬁre, his hands bound in front of him.
Maybe I was too hard on them. Maybe we shouldn’t have
tied them up. But with Volga gone, I sure as hell am not
going to have a crisis of conscience. I may have a gun, but
I’m no Obsidian. And Victra looks worn through.
“Sorry if we gave your girl a fright,” I say, setting the orb
back down. “Considerin’ how she is. And about the binds.”
Cormac looks up in surprise. “Oh, nothin’ to be done,
lass. If there’s ever a reason to hold a gun to someone’s
head, it’s a baby. Can’t say I ever heard a quieter birth than
that one. She’s one tough Peerless.”
I look to the cracked door. “I’ve never met anyone like
her.”
“They make them that way,” he says. “Tough. Less nerves
than we got.”
“That ain’t true,” I reply. “It wasn’t easy for her.”
“Seem to know a ﬁne bit about them,” he says. “Been
wonderin’ meself how a Martian mine lass ended up with
one of them. Your lilt. Ain’t never heard a highRed with one
like that. And your eyes are too muddy for a city shade.”
“True enough. I’m from Cimmeria.”
“Which mine?”
“Casseda,” I lie.

“Casseda.” He frowns. “You don’t sound like you’re from
Casseda.”
“Know many Cassedans?” I ask.
“Can’t say I do.”
“Solves that. How’d you end up here? You’re southern
too.”
“Our clan settled here to ﬁsh early on in the war,”
Cormac explains. “We was one of the ﬁrst mines freed. It
isn’t easy, but labor’s a ﬁne thing if it’s for yourself. We sell
most of our haul to suppliers in Attica. Goes to Olympia,
Agea. Even as far as Luna. Imagine that. Came back here
after I lost my leg. Figured I’d like to spend more time with
my kin than lose the rest of me.”
I hear Victra call my name from the other room. I glance
at Cormac. “Ain’t goin’ anywhere, lass,” he says.
I get up from the table. Peeking through the doorway, I
see Victra half asleep with Ulysses cradled in her arms.
“You mind fetching me some snow? Aches like a broken
tooth down there.”
I shut the door and take stock of our hosts. Alred’s still
asleep by the ﬁre, and Cormac’s yawning and resting his
head on the chair’s back. “Don’t move,” I tell him. “Just
grabbing her some ice.” I prop open the door, making sure
I can keep an eye on them as I ﬁll a cloth with ice from
outside. Volga’s footprints are already being ﬁlled in by the
snow. They lead around the right of the house toward the
old base. Something ticks around the corner. Glancing back
inside, I see Cormac with his eyes closed. I leave the
doorway to check on the sound.
It’s coming from a frosted window set in the stone. I
clear away some of the snow with my pistol. Cormac’s mute
daughter looks out from her dark bedroom. Most of her is
in shadow, but her pale face looks like a ghost’s. She taps
on the window with her ﬁngers. When she sees me, her

eyes implore me. She points back into the house, then lifts
a hand and presses it to the window. It is covered in blood
from a gash she made down the center.
A chill that has nothing to do with the wind goes through
me.
A shadow moves behind her. Her face tilts down and her
head slams forward into the heavy glass, shattering it into
large, jagged shards. I drop the ice and run back to the
door with my gun. Cormac is no longer at the table. Alred’s
place by the ﬁre is empty. His severed bindings lie on the
ﬂoor. I shout for Victra and slip on a patch of ice as I try to
run through the doorway.
I fall forward and something passes over my head and
goes thunk into the wooden doorframe. I hit the ﬂoorboards
hard and turn to see Alred struggling to pull a slingBlade
out of the doorframe. He jerks it out and turns to chop me
in the belly, only to stare down the barrel of my gun. He
puts a hand out. “Please…” I ﬁre and his arm becomes a
spray of red. He looks quizzically at it. Shattered bones
peek through the skin as it hangs from his shoulder socket
like a wet rag.
He screams.
My second round takes oﬀ his head from the chin up.
He’s thrown halfway out the door. I scramble to my feet.
The world tight and vivid. Something bright screams past
and burns a hole through the wall behind me. I drop to my
belly as more particle beams lance out from Brea’s
bedroom, ﬁlling the air with the scent of ozone. I shoot
back through the wall. The ﬁre now consumes a corner of
the room, spreading from the blanket to the table and the
kitchen. Smoke clouds the room and stings my eyes.
Victra’s door bursts open and she storms out with her
razor, sees me on the ﬂoor, Alred dead in the doorway, and
the holes from the ﬁreﬁght.
“Red Hand,” I rasp.

“Did you get him?”
“Don’t know.”
“Stay down.” She slinks through the smoke and puts her
ear next to one of the holes. Then she bursts through the
door. I follow her and ﬁnd Cormac on the ground holding in
his guts. His gun lies across the room. Victra kneels on
Cormac’s chest and stabs her razor through his hand. He
grunts in pain.
“How many are in the village?” she asks. She puts a
thumb in his eye. “How many!”
“Hundreds.” He laughs. “In the old base. You’re dead,
Gold. They’ll have heard the shots. They’ll have your
Obsidian. You’re worm food, slaver. You and your spawn.”
“Do you have a vehicle?”
He just laughs. She digs her ﬁnger into his eye, but he
won’t say any more. She kills him with a punch that
crumples the right side of his skull. I hear a gurgling from
behind a dresser and ﬁnd Brea there. The crochet in his
bedroom was hers. She’s not his daughter. His wife isn’t
out on the boats. This child is his wife. A piece of glass is
embedded in her neck. Blood gurgles from the wound and
out her mouth as she stares up at me.
Victra’s no longer in the room. I hear her coming back.
She appears at the bedroom doorway with Ulysses wrapped
in a quilt. She’s barefoot and dizzy from the smoke. “Lyria,
on me.”
I look down at the bleeding girl. “We can’t leave her!”
Victra looks down at the girl, up at me, and gives a look
of apology before tucking Ulysses tight, wheeling away, and
disappearing out the door. I gasp for air as I drag Brea out
of the burning house and lay her down in the snow.
“It’s all right, lass,” I say between coughs. “I’ve got you
now. It’s just a scratch. I’ve got you.” Her blood slicks my
hands and stains the snow. There’s so much of it. She can’t

die here. Not this poor girl. Not after surviving that man, if
it’s what I think. Not like this. She can’t die.
I press my hands against the wound to try and stop the
bleeding, but the glass cut so deep, all I can do is watch her
until she becomes as pale as the snow and her eyes stare
up at me with the ﬂames of the burning house reﬂected in
them. I didn’t know her, but I felt she could be me, or my
sister.
There’s shouts from the village. Having heard the gunﬁre
from their own homes, Red men rush toward the burning
house. There’s twenty, ﬁfty coming. Could all be the Red
Hand? A woman in the doorway of a nearby house waves
for me to run from them. Victra’s already gone, her tracks
leading back into the highlands. I chase after her, away
from the shouting men.
I lose the tracks twice in the storm. Try as I might, I
cannot summon the parasite at will. Wind bites my face and
my ﬁngers are already numb. I don’t think I’ll catch Victra.
Her strides are easily twice the length of mine. But I keep
running. My side’s got a stitch. My lungs ache from the
cold. Something roars in the sky, deeper than the sound of
the wind. Several ships glow through the swirling snow as
they pass overhead. I trudge through frozen creek beds,
through a wood of lonely aspen, and into an evergreen
forest before I’m hopelessly lost. I run in circles trying to
ﬁnd Victra’s tracks, but they’ve disappeared, as if she
suddenly grew wings. She must have taken to the trees. I
search them before realizing I might be leading them to
her. What could I even do to help her? I’d slow her down.
Part of me knows this is my fault, but she wanted ice. Volga
needed to go to the old base. None of them thought Cormac
was Red Hand. None of them saw through him. I suspected.
I kept close watch, until I didn’t.
How did they cut through the ropes?

The wind dies down not long after morning comes. Snow
falls in large ﬂakes. The world takes on the color of
gunmetal. I’ve carried my pistol with me, but it’s got only
three rounds left. I stay in the forest not knowing what to
do, listening for sounds of hunting men, dogs, or ships. I
hear nothing. Just the silence of a world turning.
Knowing I can’t go anywhere without ﬁnding out what
happened to Volga, I make my way back to the town,
sticking to ravines when possible and running quick as I
can through open ﬁelds. Climbing over a fence, I see a
splash of color amidst another copse of trees.
On the edge of the treeline, blood paints snow churned
by boots. It splashes the white bark of the trees, many of
which are fallen or shattered from a gunﬁght. A few are cut
cleanly, probably from Victra’s razor. Something lies in the
snow. As I bend to pick it up, I ﬂinch away. It’s a hand with
Red sigils on it. More than a dozen trails of blood lead to a
patch of earth where the snow melted away. Must be where
their shuttle landed. I don’t see any tracks leading oﬀ.
They’ve got her. They’ve got her and Ulysses.
A stone lodges in my throat.
Then I see crows ﬂuttering around an odd-shaped tree.
Something is wrong with that tree.
I stumble toward it, my heart knowing before my head,
pulled along by the dread weaving its ﬁngers through me.
The crows scatter away. My shadow darkens the tree. My
legs tremble. My knees buckle. I fall to the ground, unable
to accept it, unable to look away from the small trickles of
blood that wind down the bark, unable to understand why
they nailed the baby upside down to the trunk of the tree.

***LyriaUlysses is dead.

I sit watching the snow fall and feel nothing.
I see but don’t feel myself moving as I take Ulysses down
and wrap him in my coat. It is not easy or clean.
I try to dig a grave with my hands, but the earth is
frozen. I don’t realize it is too hard to dig through until I
notice my ﬁngers bleeding.
When I look back at the lifeless infant in my jacket, I
break down.
I don’t know what to do with him. I can’t bury him here
in the dirt as if he’s a part of this world. He didn’t even get
to spend a day in it. I won’t leave him here to be eaten by
scavengers. Scavengers have done enough to him already.
All I can do is take him with me.
I shake as I walk. I’ll die if I don’t put my jacket on. But I
can’t let him be cold. His newborn ﬂesh is so thin. So very
thin. I walk. I’m not sure where, or why, but I ﬁnd myself

back at the edge of the village, looking down at it. There’s a
commotion outside the base. Half a dozen new ships sit
there, including the one with the Ambrosia advert. More
than ﬁfty men with guns mill about. How many helped kill
my family? How many of them raped my sister before they
cut her throat to the bone? How many nailed this baby to
the tree after smashing its skull?
They’re surrounding something, kicking it.
I feel my legs carrying me down the hill. My hand on the
cold grip of the pistol. Three shots left. Three left for
Harmony. At the edge of the town as I’m waylaid by a
thicket of dead brush, I see the crowd part and Harmony
giving orders to her men. She looks the same as she did
two weeks before. The same as when she killed my brother,
except now she’s wearing a winter coat and carrying
Victra’s bloody razor. Her men follow her orders and drag
what they were kicking onto their ships. It’s Victra, and
Volga.
I break into a jog. I reach the burned-out house where we
thought to ﬁnd shelter. Go past it through narrow lanes
leading between several other houses. I’m still a hundred
meters oﬀ by the time the ship lifts oﬀ, some Red Hand
men on the ground, cheering them. The ships head north
and I stand there with my jacket around Ulysses. My pistol
useless in my hand.
“Girl,” someone whispers. “Girl.” A woman stares at me
from a cracked door. She opens it more. And I see it was
the woman who watched me run from the burning house.
She motions me toward her. I’m not sure why or how, but I
ﬁnd myself inside her house. I pull out my gun and point it
at her. She ﬂinches away. A man on the far side of the room
looks away from his HC to see me. Then looks back as it
shows bodies falling over a city. Brea lies on their kitchen
table. Her blood has been cleaned away, and she’s wearing

a dress, her face surrounded by winter berries. It looks as if
she is asleep.
She is their daughter.
—
“Red Hand came a year ago,” Brea’s mother says as I warm
myself by their ﬁre. Her name is Maeve. A young boy
watches from a back room. “Moved into the mine north of
town. Started using the old base for transmissions and the
mine up the coast as a redoubt. It was ﬁne at ﬁrst. Our
Gammas had already ﬂed. But then the Obsidians came and
things got bad. More Hands started showing up as the
Obsidians chased them north. So many hangin’ on by the
thread of their bones.
“They’ve got a ﬁeld outside the mine where they’ve done
and buried thousands. Their men started ﬁghtin’. Started
killin’ each other. Guess they thought they had nothin’ to
live for. So then we was told they’d be takin’ wives of our
clan.” She stiﬂes a sob. “They took me baby. She was not on
thirteen. Too shy of wedAge, but they took her still. Said
Mora was too young yet. But…” Her lips quiver. “But they
took her to the base anyway. They’ll take her away.”
I sit in the chair feeling exhausted as Maeve tells me her
tragedy. The rag I used to clean the blood from my arms
languishes in a tepid bowl of water. The old soup she gave
me doesn’t steam anymore. I’ve not even lifted the spoon.
Outside, there’s occasional gunﬁre or shouts. I cradle
Ulysses in my arms.
“Mora?” I ask. “Who is she?”
“Me youngest daughter. Not yet twelve.” She sobs.
“And you just let them take her,” I say, watching Ulysses’
dead face. “After you knew what they did to Brea?”

“What were we to do?” the woman says. “They’d kill us.
There’s hundreds up there in that mine. That man
Cormac…he’s a beast. Killed a boy who tried to…” She
shakes her head.
“He’s dead now. My friend made sure of that.”
“He ain’t the worst of them. There’s Picker—man that
chooses the wives. He chose Brea and now…” She can’t
even say her youngest daughter’s name. “And there’s the
woman.”
“Harmony.”
The woman nods and looks at Brea. “They’re roundin’ up
new girls at the base. Gonna take them to the mine to be
wives after they been inspected. Said we helped the Gold.”
“And no one has tried stop them,” I say. “You just
watched.”
She convulses sobbing. She tries to speak. To give
another excuse. But then she looks at her girl and just runs
back to the bedroom to her other children. Fear lurks over
this village.
Maeve’s husband looks at me now. The light from the HC
bathes him sickly green. The color is the only life in his
eyes. “You Gamma?”
“Why? Did Gamma rape your daughter?” I snap.
His jaw ﬂexes. “Talk about my girl again, I drag you to
the Hand meself.”
“How you gonna do that from your knees?” I ask. He
looks back at the HC, swallowing. “Your last daughter ain’t
there, old man.” I point out the window to the squat base
on promontory. “She’s over there.”
“You can stay till dark,” he says quietly. “Then you go.”
In the dim light of the ﬁre, I watch Ulysses’s cold face as
I watched that of my sister and her children. I pull the
jacket over his face. I’m tired of watching.

Through the walls I can hear the whispers of the orb.
—
That night, I dig through the rubble of Cormac’s house as
the snow comes down. The north wall has crumbled inward
from the heat and the metal roof has warped. Coughing
from the soot, I pull blackened timbers oﬀ the remains of
the kitchen table. There sitting by the stone frame of the
hearth lies Fig’s black orb. Wrapping my hands in my
sleeves, I pull it out and crouch in the remains of the house.
Despite the heat of the ﬁre, the orb is undamaged, as I
suspected it would be. There is no lock. No hinges or any
gaps in the metal to show where it opens. I tap it with a
naked ﬁnger. It’s cool to the touch. Like river stone. I hold
the orb in both hands, turning it over to ﬁgure out how to
open it. Maybe it doesn’t open. I rap it with my knuckles.
Whatever is inside was worth Fig risking her life to get. It
must contain something that can help me.
If it’s hollow, I can’t tell. But if it’s not, it should be
heavier. I saw Volga break rocks on it, and Victra’s razor
slide oﬀ without leaving much more than a scratch. Fig
seemed to be able to call it with the implants in her ﬁngers.
Maybe I need those to open it. But if I need those, why
would it call to me? I lower my head to it, hoping the
proximity to the parasite in my head will open it. Nothing
happens except the blood in my brain thumps louder.
I lower the orb in frustration and lean back. Flakes of
snow ﬂutter down from the sky and gather on my face. I
suck on the opened scabs on my hands and think. What do I
do? What can I do? There isn’t salvation in this orb. Even if
there was, Volga and Victra are already dead.
I drop my hands to the orb and consider defeat.
The pressure in my head releases, like a popping bubble.
A low hum comes from my lap and I look down to see an

emerald-green light appearing underneath a faint blood
smear my thumb left on the orb. I sit up and wipe the soot
from my eyes. The green light ripples in the black metal,
becoming a swirl of tiny arcane mathematical symbols that
coalesce into the shape of a woman atop a bull. The image
is no larger than my thumb.
DNA sampling complete, new protocols implemented for
Énatos Figment, a soft female voice says in my head, or
was it from the orb? Sfaíra access granted. My heart thuds
as the orb purrs and its surface begins to unscrew till a
thousand millimeter-wide strips around its meridian are
turning in alternating clockwise and counterclockwise
rotations. They fold in on one another until the orb divides
in two and folds over on itself, revealing an interior the
color of baby teeth pulsing with soft light. Built into the orb
are several hundred small compartments marked with
obscure symbols.
A central device made from the same material as the
inside of the orb is embedded in the bottom of the orb. It is
the size of my thumb. A green light glows inside it and I
sense frequencies ﬂowing between it and the parasite in
my head the same way I found Victra in the woods.
Cortical implant diagnostic complete.
A long list of green characters appears in the air in front
of me. I reach out to touch them. But they aren’t there. I
swipe at them with my hand and they scroll downward. The
list goes on and on, none of it making any sense to me.
Figment functionality impaired. Seek repairs at the
Womb upon soonest convenience.
Seek repairs? To a parasitic implant in my brain? Where
the hell would I do that?
Geolocation
function
unavailable.
Mobile
uplink
unavailable.
The parasite is reading my mind. What is the implant?

A gift from Astarte.
Who the hell is Astarte?
She was you.
What does that mean? No response. What is Figment?
How do I get repairs? No response except a reminder to
seek repairs. Bloodyhell. Was the Brown woman Figment,
or is Figment the parasite? Was she being controlled by it?
Am I? Could I be if I got repairs? If I can get repairs,
someone out there must know. Does that someone control
the parasite? Would they control me?
Volga seemed to think Figment was just a woman, but
Victra knew better. It doesn’t make any sense, and right
now I don’t really give a shit. Apparently I expected the orb
to contain a rocket launcher or something.
I prod through the supplies. Nothing is labeled in a
language I understand. And each device is as inert and
bizarre as the next. There are small blue disks set in gel. A
black nasal inhaler with assorted cartridges. A silver device
that looks like it goes around an eye, with a tiny needle
injector. A credit ring with Republic markings. A credit ring
with Society markings. A credit implant with peculiar
winged symbols. A case of a hundred pebble-sized balls in
diﬀerent colors. A selection of iris implants, in all fourteen
colors. A titanium sphere. Vials of clear liquid. An armory of
colored needles. A miniature pharmacy—of life takers or
life givers, take your gamble. Passport implants, which
sprout eerie holos of my face when I touch them. And a
hundred other items I can’t begin to suss out the function
for. But no bloodydamn gun. No magical broomstick. No
teleportation device, unless it’s in one of the pills. No body
armor. No universal com. No grenades. No damn manual.
Not one thing I could use to somehow become a hero.
“What does this shit do!” I beg. “Help me. Please.” The
parasite does not reply. I hit my head, trying to jar its loose
circuits. “Come on!”

Implant functionality impaired. Seek repairs at soonest
convenience.
Fucker.
Name-calling is a waste of neurons.
Stupid parasite. Useless treasure. That’s what Figment
meant when she said Volga could use it. That I didn’t
deserve it. Tough shit. I’m all that’s here.
I riﬂe through the rest of the contents, determined to ﬁnd
something that will help me. I frown when I open a long
compartment around the bottom ring of storage. I pull out
a small ﬂexible magazine that looks like it would hold
bullets or pills. But neither bullets nor pills ﬁll the gel
magazine.
It is full of teeth.
I start to laugh.
I storm back into Maeve’s home. She’s lying in her
daughter’s bed, crying. She doesn’t even bother to turn till
I slam the door behind me. My eyes are bloodshot from
smoke. My hair’s a rat’s nest. My pants are torn. I’m
covered in soot and blood and carrying Figment’s orb in a
half-burned blanket, and I’m in no mood for the drunk
bastard in front of his little HC, or for the mother who
hovered by the window chewing her nails like a frightened
dumb goat as her daughter was raped across the street day
after day.
“How long those bastards gonna be before they take the
girls back to the mine?” I ask.
“Told you to get,” the husband says.
I point my gun at his head. “Shut your copper gob. I got
business with your wife.”
He moves his mouth like a dumb mule and turns back to
his HC, pretending to ﬁnd the news program showing
Republic ships gathering to ﬁght the Obsidians for some
reason or another to be more interesting than the muzzle of

my gun. His wife stares at the wall as if trying to become it.
“Maeve.” She doesn’t reply. She smells like she hasn’t
washed in years when I crouch by her. “Maeve.” She won’t
turn till I pull her ear. “You wanna see your Mora again?” I
ask. “Do you want to see your baby girl?”
She looks up and nods.
“When do those bastards take the girls back to the
mine?”
“In the morning,” she says. “Inspection don’t last that
long. And they don’t ﬂy when the satellites are overhead.
They’ll keep…” Her lips quiver like salted slugs. “They keep
the wives in the base until they pass. Be on ten usually.”
“Then you got till daybreak to make me look pretty
enough to drop a drillboy’s jaw,” I say. “Can you do that?
Gimme a little blush, curl this nest?”
She smiles. Finally this is something she knows.
“Little oil and an iron. I got one just behind the
cupboard.”
“Good, Maeve. Good. And I’m gonna need a pair of pliers.
Small as you got.”

***LyriaBy morning, I’m schlepping over the frosted snow toward

the base, trying not to limp for the pliers in my shoe. It’s
bright and blue out and pretty enough for me to be pissed
at the world for putting such a lovely face on such a shitinfested day.
The sea lolls against the coast like a dancing gray lover.
It spits little bursts of salt that coast up in the air and then
drizzle down on my shiny curled hair. Maeve might be all
closed up to a world that’s beaten the hell out of whatever
pretty dream she had for herself when she was freed from
the mines. But she knows how to make an escapee from a
genocide look like a dumb mine lass with rosy cheeks and
ﬂailing skirts and nothin’ to her knowin’ except how to coax
fatass spiders into puking silk and how to get rustblood
drillboys spitting seed enough to populate a township.
I stride down what counts as the main road for this
whipped town, tucking my head like I’ve got something to
hide. I got a bundle under my arm. It ain’t the orb. I left

that buried in the cinders, and Ulysses with Maeve. All I
got is a bucket of salted ﬁsh from Maeve’s pitiable larder
and enough ankle showing for the Red Hand butcherboys
smoking burners in front of the old base to forget about
their morning snort of grayline. They make like bees to me.
No manners. They’re conquerors. What they see is theirs.
And they’re wondering how the Picker didn’t already take
his wife tax of me.
They pester about, asking questions. I act all domestic
and frazzled, careening about like I’m a drunk sparrow
trying to ﬁnd gaps in the trees. They pull my hands, to see
if I’ve a ring on. They hem me in and coax me into a smoke.
I take a burner between my lips as one rests his hand on
my ass, cupping inside the cheek, nearly where the
magazine of teeth are secured by epoxy to my deeper parts.
I act timid, like I can’t resist the absolute magnetism of his
hand halfway up my ass. The other boys get jealous, and
the biggest shoulders the other aside.
“Never had a burner,” I say dozily to Biggest.
“We got ’em by the carton back at the fortress,” he
brags. I try not to tongue my aching gums. A good part of
my gray matter wants to melt his face right there, or maybe
aim a little lower. Another part feels bad for the stupid
bastard. He’s pimply, not even in his twenties. He thinks
he’s something because he’s got a gun and big hands and
big shoulders. But the dumb fuck’s never seen a Telemanus
in wargear or the Sovereign sitting there with a cup of tea
and the weight of ten billion on her. He’s never seen Victra
standing there like a god giving life to a baby that’d change
the world if he ever got the chance to grow. If the dumb
bastard did have a notion of his true size, he’d crumple up
and die for understanding how petrifyingly small he
actually is.
I know how small I am. But I also know how small they
are.

The last part of my gray matter, the most important part,
is occupied with the idea of melting the guts out of
Harmony, sawing her head oﬀ, and feeding the rest of her
to a ﬁre. I’d have done it for Tiran alone, and maybe felt
guilty. But then her stimmed-up rapists had to ruin my
sister too. Had to butcher her children. Cut them with
slingBlades like they were onions. Then they had to kill my
pa when he couldn’t even walk. Then they had to nail a
baby to a tree. I don’t give a piss if they’re human. If they
got problems. If they got drugs in ’em. If they had hard
lives. If they got reasons. All I know is one has his hand
digging into my backside, and I’m smiling, bearing it
because I know I’m gonna die. But I’m gonna take as many
of them with me as I can, and maybe, just maybe, ﬁnd out if
my friends are still alive.
The big one leads me toward the old base. Takes me
around the shoulders, whispering so close I can smell the
morning eggs and tobacco on his breath. His ﬁngers graze
my right tit. His boys saunter behind, half ripe jealous, half
puﬀed up by his conquest. He steers me past the louses at
the door, and tries to pull me sidelong into some room
where he’ll rape me ﬁrst, and then share me like a halfdone burner.
“Never been inside here!” I coo loudly in my best
approximation of Maeve’s accent. “This is what it looks
like! Sure there were Grays about once. Maybe Golds!
Bellonas, weren’t they? I’ve always wanted to go to
Olympia.”
“Never mind about Olympia,” he says. “It’s a crow
shithole now. In here’s where the fun is.”
But the noise has perked the ears of bigger dogs, and
before he can pull me into the room, one of the Picker’s
boys comes around the corner. He’s a got a metal arm, kind
eyes, and a beautiful head of rusty hair. “What you got
there, Torrow?”

“Oh, just a friend,” big Torrow says, all meek-like. “None
yours, Duncan.”
“You know the ﬁsh are under Harmony’s hand,” the
handsome man says. He sips his coﬀee and those bright
eyes of his look me over. He seems in his mid-twenties.
Cocky, but a kindness to him.
“Picker already got the tax,” my idiot says, tilting me
away protectively. “This one’s an old maid. Prolly already
got a canyon from three, four?”
“You had little ones, miss?” Duncan asks me polite-like.
“Not a one,” I say.
“Husband?”
“Gone and died,” I say.
“Clan you?”
“Beta.”
“Omicron here.” He squints at me and smiles awkwardly.
“How many years?”
“Not but twenty,” I say.
He snorts. “More like twenty-four.” He tosses the dregs
of his coﬀee on the ﬂoor and takes one step toward Torrow,
ﬂicks his robot ﬁngers, and the arm around my shoulders
disappears. Torrow gives me a good push. “Take the slut,”
he mutters. “Prolly got a dead cave anyhow.”
Duncan politely tells me he’s gonna frisk me. He ain’t
nearly thorough enough. When he’s done he wipes the
snow oﬀ my face like he’s bringing me to shelter. He leads
me on into a bigger room that’s got live computers and a
few boys hunched over them. The Picker’s having breakfast
of eggs and ﬁsh and pudding. “What’s what?” he asks when
Duncan brings me in. Picker is lean and fox-like. Clever
behind the eyes, and sinister as all hell.
“Fresh catch,” Duncan says.
“Fresh? She’s a relic.”

“Might be, but seedless, so seems. And it’s better than
babies.”
“Already got the tax. Toss her back.”
“Them’s kids,” Duncan says. “You know it ain’t right.”
Picker eats his eggs and stares at him. “You said you
didn’t need a wife.”
“She ain’t for me. Some them girls ain’t even bled yet.”
“So?”
“So it ain’t right,” Duncan says, setting his hands on his
belt. Whoever he is, he’s got some pull. Picker doesn’t take
it as a challenge, but the other boys are watching.
Picker pushes his eggs away and lights a burner.
Through the smoke, he appraises me. “Spin her.” I get
spun. Do my best to show as much ankle as my sister did
when she danced. I laugh lightly, as if I’m dizzy from it.
“You wanna husband?” Picker asks me. He’s got the bad
eyes of a cave ﬁsh. He has to squint to see me right. I look
down, all shy.
“Long as he’s a good one,” I say. “I get to pick?”
The men laugh.
“No, lass,” Picker says. “You don’t get to bloody pick.
HeadTalk does that. Best blood gets top mare. And you
ain’t top mare. So you get what you get. Still want a
husband?”
I nod. “Better than smellin’ like ﬁsh day in day out.”
—
A great show is made of giving me a little plate of dry eggs
as they discuss what to do with me. The eggs are tasteless
like everything else I’ve eaten since my spit boiled oﬀ my
tongue. When I’ve scraped the last bit from my plate,
Duncan leads me away to a room guarded by a couple lads.
The smell of clustered bodies washes out as the door

swings open. Near on twenty girls are nestled on old
mattresses with dirty sheets, huddled together for fear.
“Which of you’s the youngest?” Duncan asks.
A girl who couldn’t be more than eleven points to a girl
even smaller than her. “Lea is.”
A look of pain goes across Duncan’s face as he kneels
and motions her over. “You want to go home to your family,
little one?” She nods, terriﬁed. He extends a hand. She
doesn’t take it until the other girls prod her forward.
Duncan guides me into the room and takes Lea out.
The door slams shut behind me.
—
Half the girls dead silent, staring at the stained sheets like
they’re reading palms. Others huddle together. With the
boys gone, I look around in case there are plants, but if
there are, they’re good enough actors to be in the Hyperion
Opera. The room stinks of fear. Not one of them older than
me, and to scared girls that means something.
I cross my arms and say in a low whisper: “They’re going
to rape all of us until we have brood.” They stare at me.
“Then they’ll do it again, and again and again till your
belly’s like an empty waterskin. Some o’ you will quit and
take it. Rest of you they’ll hook on grayline and you’ll beg
for prick just to get a high. They’ll prolly share those ones.”
I look around at the wide eyes. Some of the girls have
started to bawl. “How many of you have husbands?” I ask.
A freckle-faced girl in her early twenties raises her hand.
She nudges another girl, a little younger with long pigtails,
until the girl raises her hand too. “How many of you are
aged north of sixteen?” About half raise their hands. “How
many of you had brothers or pas killed?” They all raise
their hands. “How many had brothers or pas cry like babies
as you were dragged away, but didn’t lift a bloodydamn

ﬁnger?” They stare at me, all too ashamed to raise their
hands. The dead are honored. The cowards are hidden. It’s
all the answer I needed. This is right. “Any of you rats?” I
glare around at them. “Good. ’Cause where I’m from, rats
get their eyes stabbed out.”
Some of the girls ﬂinch. Freckles crosses her arms as if
she’d like to see me try. The smallest of the girls, one with
skin almost as dark as mine and a shaggy mane of hair,
glares around at the other girls, daring them to be rats.
Tails, the one with a husband, looks down.
I reach back down my skirts and ﬁnd the head of the
strip of teeth. I jerk, wincing as the epoxy pulls oﬀ half my
skin with it. Holding the strip in my hands, I pull the pliers
from my shoe.
With all of them watching, I stick the pliers in my mouth,
secure the iron bits to my second back molar, and jerk
hard. The tooth doesn’t come out straight, but I saw Victra
plop out a baby standing up without a single yelp. I rock
twice and jerk again, using both my arms. The blood pours
down the back of my throat as the tooth and root burst out.
I hold up the pliers, open my mouth so they all see, and
then I swallow the blood. I take another one of Fig’s teeth
from my strip and shove it against the wound. There’s a
sizzle, a pain that shoots through the root, through my
nostril, into my eyes and brain. It’s the second I’ve put in. I
wipe the blood from my lips and smile.
Tails gives a little gasp. The rest of the girls look terriﬁed
except Freckles, who tilts her head, and the little one with
the mane. We’ll call her Lion. She claps her hands together
until Freckles shushes her.
“I ain’t from here. Where I’m from, these fucks killed me
whole clan,” I say. “I ain’t here to be no brood sow. I ain’t
here to be no grayline whore. I ain’t here to be saved. I’m
here to kill those bastards. Any of you sisters got similar
intentions, you better speak up, or you’re gonna be a slag

toy till you see the Vale.” I hold up the pliers. “So, who
wants to save themselves?”
Little Lion bounds forward.
We swallow our pulled teeth so they don’t ﬁnd them
hidden under the mattresses. After I explained what Fig’s
teeth do, Freckles got all but two of the girls to get in line.
She held them down when I pulled the teeth, and made
sure they were quiet. One wailed so hard the guards
outside beat the door with their riﬂes. After their teeth
were stripped, I secured each of Fig’s devices myself and
Freckles helped Lion clean up their blood. I ﬁnd out from
the others that Lion is Mora—Brea’s sister. Only Tails and
another smaller girl refused my oﬀer.
I sit down next to Tails as Freckles cleans up the last girl.
She’s murmuring under her breath how we shouldn’t do
this. How they’ll hurt us. I put an arm around her. “Listen,
you don’t have to join in. All I need is you to be quiet, right?
We’ll get you home.”
“Y-you’re gonna get us all killed,” she says. “You’re
crazy.”
“Yeah,” I say, realizing nice isn’t gonna work. “Yeah, but
you remember what I do to rats?”
“She stabs their eyes out,” Lion says from behind me.
Her hands are balled into tiny ﬁsts as she glares at Tails.
“She stabs their eyes out,” Freckles adds. Several of the
girls repeat it around Tails until she covers her ears. I lean
in front of her. “Remember.” I bring my ﬁnger to my lips.
“Shh.” I leave as dramatically as I can, but a thought
catches me. “Can you read?” I ask her.
She shakes her head.
And now I’ve got a backup plan.
They collect us midmorning when a rumble comes
through the walls. A transport waits outside. Some of the
relatives of the girls come to see them oﬀ, the rest hide

from their own shame in their chores, making up the boats
and chiseling snow oﬀ the roofs. Some of the girls cry as
we’re pushed onto the transport, but none as loud as poor
Tails. Others tongue their gums till I shoulder them. Lion
and Freckles glare at the Red Hand militia as we board up.
I slump forward and sit on the freezing metal bucket seat,
keeping my eyes down as the door clamps shut. The guards
don’t chat much to us. They just smoke their burners. Some
few women are with them. They think they’re men, or at
least they think they’re better than us dumb sows because
they’ve got guns and knives and pants, and we’re in skirts.
A few of the girls are nauseous by the time the shuttle
sets down. Freckles pukes a little in the corner. There
aren’t any windows, so the ﬁrst time we get fresh air is in
some cavern hangar that was carved ages back by
clawDrills.
This is their fortress? After seeing the Citadel of Light, I
almost laugh.
Ambient light dies as we’re led away into the main of the
mine. Maybe I thought the Red Hand was something big
back when I was in 121, but next to the Citadel Lionguards
or Barca Sols and especially the Ascomanni, these louts are
a joke. We spot maybe a couple hundred as we are led
down an ancient gravLift into the township. A few boys
whistle at us as we go. A few run up and pinch our cheeks
before getting clouted by Picker and Duncan, who smiles at
us as if being nice will save him from bad dreams.
They dump us in some old barracks for Grays.
Everything’s rusted except the small sad aﬀectations they
added for the sake of us womenfolk. There’re beer bottles
with wildﬂowers. HCs playing old comedies. And a couple
old hens who introduce themselves and inspect our
armpits. They check our teeth for cavities, and when they
see our irritated gums they murmur to themselves about
gum disease. Then they bring in an old Yellow man with a

limp to check between our legs for lice and other maladies,
as if we’re the ones who’ll have them.
It’s all I can do not to crumple the Yellow’s skull with a
beer bottle when the cold forceps spread me so he can look
inside. He pats me gently on the knee and looks at me in
sorrow. When we’re done and I’m conﬁrmed not-diseased,
they let us alone with the other newcomers from other
towns along the coast. No one mingles. Freckles eyes the
other girls like intruders. I see Tails taking a step toward
them and click my tongue. She stops and stares at the
ground.
They give us a precious pack of burners for being
“honorable lasses” and treat it like it’s Venusian chocolate.
The girls look like idiots smoking them down. Most have
never even had tobacco. A few puke. I take the burner from
Lion’s ﬁngers and tear it apart.
“How old are you, even?” I ask.
“Eleven.”
“Going on forty,” Freckles says. “She’s crazy, that one.”
“I ain’t crazy,” Lion protests. “You’s the one in love with a
Gray.” Of the other girls, she seems to respect only
Freckles’s opinions. I raise an eyebrow at Freckles.
“Grays are risky business.”
“So mind your own. When we gonna do it?” she asks.
“Like I said, when they pair us oﬀ. We’ll be alone then
and able to get their guns. Make sure the other girls
remember.”
“We gotta wait that long?” She glances back at Tails.
“Known her since I was ﬁve. She’s gonna tell them soon as
we split up. Soon as we can’t see her rat.”
“You know that for a certain fact?” I ask.
“Well as I know anything.”

I glance at Tails, who sits in the corner by herself.
Freckles is right. She watches the two hens chatting with
each other on the far side of the room.
“Make a distraction for me,” I tell Freckles.
“What you gonna do?”
“Fix it.”
She’s about to press for particulars, when Lion, who was
eavesdropping, screams at the top of her lungs and runs for
the hallway. The hens curse and pursue. I bolt up, only the
girls in the room now. I slip toward Tails. She looks up as I
approach. I kick her hard as I can in the jaw. Something
pops. She sprawls sideways with a cry. I can’t take chances,
so I pull back the hands covering her face and try to stomp
on her jaw. Finally my heel gets through and her hands go a
little slack. I stomp again until I hear the bone crack like
wet wood. I wheel back around locking eyes with the
staring girls. “I don’t like rats,” I say. The newcomers look
away. My girls are horriﬁed. I return to Freckles and sit
back down, throbbing all over. Tails sobs through her
broken jaw like she’s dying.
“Shit,” Freckles mutters. “What you got against rats?”
Her smile sours till her face mirrors mine as we listen to
Tails’s moan until the hens come back. They drag a crying
Lion by her ears. No one sits within ten meters of Tails. The
hens demand to know what happened. After seeing what I
did to Tails, the girls greet the question with ominous
silence. Tails’s explanation comes out as a pathetic moo.
She’ll live, but she won’t be talking for a while.
Stupidity is not a victimless crime.
I won’t let these girls pay for her big mouth.
The hens feed us after the burners and make us each
drink a cup of bitter wine, making sure it all goes down. It’s
got something in it. I feel the buzz right oﬀ, a slow warmth
and wooziness. The whole time they’re talking about what

an honor we’re about to receive. Freckles glowers as they
feed Lion the same size of cup they gave us.
They line us up in a big room like dolls. I think it’s
around nighttime. Hard to tell because the mine’s shut oﬀ
from light. Didn’t feel this as a girl. Days had rhythm in
Lagalos. Could tick the clock on paper by the measure of
my mother’s sounds and smells. Door creak. Five in the
morning. Coﬀee smell, ﬁve-twenty. Click of tin breakfast
plates. Five-thirty.
Here there’s no rhythm, because there’s no life.
Just like the cell.
Can already tell there’s too many young men, and not
enough to distract them or keep ’em loyal. If the Obsidians
are tearing them apart bad as everyone says, then they
must be wondering why they’re ﬁghting, why they’re not
trying to make it in the city like sane people.
This ain’t the Red Hand we feared. I don’t need the
parasite to smell the decay. Is it right to risk these girls? Is
it better if they just take it and survive? If I can’t ﬁnd Volga
and Victra, if they can’t somehow help us, I think I just
signed the death notes for nearly twenty girls.
But it’s too late to go back.
We wait in the lines in a big cold room where mine
tinpots used to practice their shooting. The burning of
candles and the carpets they’ve put down on the ﬂoor can’t
obscure the old purpose of the room or the holes bullets
chewed in the far wall. We wait till my lower back starts to
ache and Lion starts to whistle, to the annoyance of the
hens. One smacks her ear. Lion just grins up at her.
Then Picker comes in with Duncan trailing behind him
and tells us to mind our manners. To be polite. To curtsy
because we’re about to meet the Red Mother herself.
Maker of the Red Hand. Sister of Ares, Narol O’Lykos. But
the Reaper’s uncle wasn’t Ares, and all the girls know it.

Another ten minutes. Then some mean, mean bastards
come in and face us down like a ﬁring squad, but they don’t
have that many guns. Most are men, a few women. Not
boys like the others, but hard and rangy and evil, with eyes
like Picker’s and a quietness about them that’s so inhuman
I think all the girls will shit themselves and spill our plans.
Good thing I took out the rat.
Then She comes in.
The woman has ﬁlled my nightmares from the bunks of
the Telemanus estate to the freezing holes I slept in next to
Volga and Victra. The woman who made red butter of
Tiran’s head. Who I remembered ruining my family every
time Volga taught me to strip down her riﬂe. My ﬁngers
would shake from the cold, from the fear of the pursuing
hunters, but all I had to do was picture her face to
remember why I wanted to learn Volga’s weapons.
Harmony’s face is half hell, half faded beauty. And she
was a beauty. There’s lines there now, sour crow’s-feet. But
in her time, she woulda outstripped my sister by a
kilometer. She woulda made the boys beg for a twirl of the
skirts.
Harmony stalks forward now with a weird, lazy
carelessness that I’ve only seen in soldiers. No preening.
No boasting. Just a slump of the soldiers and a forward
trajectory.
She looks at us.
Then she smiles with her eyes. A brilliant, incandescent
loveliness that makes me tilt my head wondering if I got it
all wrong. Or am I that drunk?
“Sisters,” Harmony says before rushing forward to greet
us, going down the line, cupping our faces, kissing us on
the foreheads, on the mouths, on the eyes. “Sisters,” she
says. “Sisters. Tonight you receive an honor most Red

women only dream of. Tonight you will be chosen as wives
by heroes of the Red People.
“How fearful you must be, standing here on the precipice
of a life more glorious than you could know. There was life
before this. The life you thought you had, that they trained
you to be accustomed to. The life you thought was your
destiny. That life was a lie. The life of a slave is no life.
“And there is this life. The true life. The second life of
liberation. The life not of clan, but of the People. One
People united against oppression. United against the
cruelty of the slavers who once called us by numbers, and
those who still seek to shackle us.” She sees a girl crying,
not one of mine. “I know you’re fearful. I feared once. I
feared when my children were dying of a cancer of the
lung. I prayed to the Reaper for them. The real Reaper who
guards the Vale, not the man who turned his back on his
people. I prayed to the Reaper to judge them innocent and
lovely and keep them in this world. But the Reaper sorts
only the just and the pure in the next life. I prayed and
prayed, but who was there to answer my prayers in this
life? Who was there to save my children? No one. They
died.”
She scoops a handful of dirt and lets it trickle out her
clenched ﬁst. “I watched them wither. I watched my
husband wither after them. I watched the Sons of Ares
wither, not to death, but to the temptations of this world.”
She discards the dirt. “When I was afraid, I always prayed,
as you pray. But no one is there to answer. Our salvation
comes in the next world. We must make our own in this
one. That is why the Red Hand ﬁghts.”
She looks at each one of us, eyes lingering on Lion. She
smiles down at her.
Lion does not smile back.
“You are the bravest of our people. You do not hold
weapons. You do not ﬁght. But you carry the banner of

liberty.” She looks at Freckles. The girl can’t meet her gaze.
“You carry the bloodline of our people. Without women,
without wives, what are a people but a doomed matchstick?
To blaze and glare light, and then to die.” She looks at me.
It is the hardest thing I have ever done to hold her gaze
and nod, but I do. “But you are the wildﬁre. The ﬁre that
spreads. Without guns, without ships, you are the soldiers
that bring us the future. You are the wives of Red! I envy
you.” She nods so convincingly. “I envy you. If I could still
bring life into this world, I would not need this.” She rests
her hand on her pistol. “But we all have our duty. Mine is to
protect you. If your husband beats you. If he is cruel to
you…come to me, or any of the women you see here today.
And we will sort it.”
Duncan takes a swig from his ﬂask and stares at the
ground in the line of Red Hand militia. But the Red Hand
women with Harmony nod, brainwashed, pathetic, or evil. I
hate them so much more than the men.
Many of the girls, especially the newcomers, ﬁnd
themselves nodding too. Either they buy the bullshit or are
drunk, or afraid, or wanting the approval of the older
women. Most of my lot stand rigid or shake with fear, not
because they’re smarter than the other girls, but because
we have a plan. And once they’ve grasped the wheel, tiny
as it may be, they feel they have control. They have a
chance.
I know because it wasn’t Victra who saved me from the
Ascomanni or from getting sucked out her ship. Volga and I
did that. It made me feel alive in a way I never had.
“One day you may hold a weapon,” Harmony promises,
“but today, your duty to your people is to bear the seed of
your husband to fruition. To grow our union with new blood
and foster boys that will become warriors, girls that will
become wives and one day warriors as well. I salute you.

You are the best of our kind. May the Vale wait for you, and
may the blood of our people ﬂow strong!”

***LyriaThe sound of zithers wails through the concrete halls as

we’re led in a line down to the township common, where
several hundred bearded men and boys with smears for
whiskers laugh and drink at long tables.
Some few ﬁghter women join them, hair done short like
the men. Oil ﬁres burn in metal barrels. Boys race men to
see the bottom of their mugs. The stolen wealth of other
races decorates their coats. Gold sigils clatter as they
laugh. Obsidian arm torcs encircle the necks of their
childwives. The richer they are, the less the women can
move. They look like birds sitting at their tables set back
from the ﬁghters, gossiping or staring at the cups before
them, wishing what’s inside would numb them faster.
The men cheer as we’re brought in, but it’s short-lived. It
all becomes solemn as we’re lined up in another row of
dolls. Girls stare at their feet. Some brave ones like
Freckles look on ahead like they’re at the gallows.
Harmony takes her place of honor at the head table. Mugs

are slammed in unison making a mockery of the Fading
Dirge until she raises her hands and quiets all.
I scan the township levels, trying to piece it all together
and ﬁgure where they keep Victra and Volga.
“Hail the children!” she says. “Hail the wives. But above
all, hail the ﬁghters!” Harmony calls. “Coran O’Boetia!”
The men roar and slam their mugs. “For the killing of ﬁve
Obsidian barbarians, and the taking of forty torcs in the
highlands, you are a boy no more. It’s time a wife made a
man of you! The prime pick is yours.”
A drunken man-boy, uncommonly tall and handsome
except for the case of childhood pox, manages to stand
straight under a barrage of backslaps and jeering. With a
shy grin, he makes his way down the line, glancing at each
of our faces, passing mine without pausing until he comes
to Freckles. She almost cracks her tooth then and there. He
bows unsteadily and extends a crumpled haemanthus. I
wince as she glances back at me.
One of the hens comes behind her and, pinching the
small of her back so the men can’t see, whispers in her ear.
Freckles takes the haemanthus, hands shaking so bad she
nearly drops it. The ﬁghters roar in approval as Coran
takes her hand and they walk to an empty table and sit. He
pours her ale and downs half a mug himself.
Sixteen times the choosing ritual is repeated, until
Duncan tucks a ﬂask away and whispers to Picker. Picker
cackles and shoves him forward.
“Duncan O’Cyros has ﬁnally dropped his balls! He wants
a lass! What do you say, Mother?”
Harmony snorts. “He waited long enough. Go on, lad.”
Only three of us remain—old hag me, Lion, and a plump
newcomer. Duncan takes a haemanthus from the barrel,
walks straight up to me, and oﬀers it. I almost forget to
take it.

Lion is picked last by a man of ﬁfty. Even some of the Red
Hands watch him with disdain as he leads his childwife
away.
The farce of a ceremony is a blur. Whatever they gave us
in the wine took a bit to start. It numbed me at ﬁrst, but
now it creeps up on little cat feet as we stand together
between the braziers and some man babbles on about duty
or somesuch. Many of the words are the same I heard when
my sister married. Feel a little sick hearing them now. My
hand’s clutching dirt with Duncan’s, both wrapped together
by a bloodstained cloth woven by the wifeslaves. He’s
shifting nervously foot to foot, his early conﬁdence in
shambles for some reason. I watch the acrid black smoke
from the braziers weave upward to the roof of the mine. All
this is a lie. All this pretending the world ain’t changing. I
was jealous of my sister, but I never wanted a husband, not
me. Maybe I thought I wanted one. But that was just
because it said something that I didn’t have one. That I got
skipped over at wedAge.
I feel sick inside that it happens like this.
I repeat some words that I can’t remember even as my
mouth’s saying them. That wine’s something ﬁerce. The
other girls are like warm dolls. Wavering there with all the
steadiness of riverside cattails. I’m wondering if it was a
good idea to give them the teeth. How many will yellow
out? How many will rat on me soon as they get their wits?
Tails can’t be the only coward. Maybe the wine’s good.
Makes them slow and easy, instead of twitchy and fearful.
I still gotta ﬁnd the big girls.
Fortunately, the men are nearly as drunk as we are,
especially Duncan. For courage? For fear? For weakness?
Fuck knows. Maybe they’re just tired of getting butchered
by Obsidians. Some swill and new cunny must be the Vale
itself after ﬁghting Seﬁ’s beasts. The few amongst the
Hand who ain’t drunk are the old boys. Grizzly lechers who

are corner-looking out their eyes at their wives. I want to
retch knowing what Lion’s old man is thinking. Did any of
them rape my sister? Did Duncan? I look over at him. He’s
so young. So handsome. So vile.
I know the marriage is done when there’s a cheer. For all
his smiles and earlier politeness, Duncan gives me about
two seconds before I feel his cold tongue probing between
my clamped lips. I let him in and he sticks it almost to the
back of my throat, cupping my ass with his hands. He
smells of shit tobacco and bitter swill and body odor and
mint. He sighs into me, hungry.
That was quick.
Then it’s celebration. Women hug me. Men hug me. I’m
passed about like one of the clan. Like I’m not a sow whore
they stole from her people. Then there’s dancing. Duncan is
popular with the men. He twirls me and probes my body
like he owns it. Nausea comes in a tide. Fearing I’ll retch, I
pat Duncan on the chest and stumble over to a table and sit
hunched and feeling the world swooping around me. A blur
of faces ﬂicker past. All laughing and gay. I want to crawl
under the table. I want to hide until the world doesn’t feel
like some spinning kaleidoscope of horror. But a stone-cold
realization sets on me that if I do that, if I curl up, if I stay
seated, I’ll end up waking in a tangle of sheets in a stone
home like the one I grew tall in, except I won’t be hearing
my mother in the morning. I’ll be hearing Duncan snoring
drunkenly and feeling the taste of stale liquor in my mouth
like old plums and the sore ache of my maidenhead split.
It ain’t the parasite telling me I gotta move. I gotta be
smart. I gotta ﬁnd Volga and Victra. The parasite is quiet,
though no longer contained to just my head. I feel its
tendrils inside me, like roots along my bones. What does it
want? If it weren’t damaged, what could it do?
Wondering that won’t save me here.

What would Ephraim do? How would he ﬁnd the big
girls?
I force myself to stand. Am I standing? I’m numb, but my
feet are on the ground. Duncan’s on his knees taking swill
from a big gourd as men chant. I stumble to him. He
coughs liquor as I pull at him and he puts his hands on my
ass. “Dance with me,” I think I say. Soon we’re dancing, so
I must have said it. Colors and hair and tassels ﬂicker past.
Amongst the laughing faces, I see a girl, is it Freckles? She
stares at the ground as her husband twirls her and laughs.
Duncan’s hot against me. I feel his rank breath on my
neck. The sweat from his forehead against mine. He grinds
against me, and I feel his manhood hard against my thigh.
“It ain’t that big a wedding,” I say.
“What you mean?” he asks. “My darlin’ disappointed?”
“I thought the Red Hand was an army.”
“It is an army!” he cries. “Legions deep. We’re all over
Cimmeria, doncha know? No war talk for my wife’s lips.
Dance with me.” I let him twirl me and I hold back a surge
of vomit that squirrels up my throat. He pins me against
him as the music slows.
“It’s not an army,” I say all spoiled-like. “Just a gaggle.”
“A gaggle!” he crows. “We’s been hard hit, sure, but
there’s more brothers deep here and two more mines.”
“Doing what? Drinking?”
“Naw, some’s mining. Some’s training. Some’s guarding
the prisoners. You know the Gold hiding in your village?”
“I thought there was an Obsidian too.”
“Huge one! Wouldn’t believe your eyes. Big as the
Reaper himself.” She’s not. “Got her with the others.” I
prod him a little. “Caught some coldies in the plains.
Harmony put them to work in the deeptunnels clearing
pitvipers and hauling ore.”
“Tamed Obsidians. I heard it all now. I don’t believe you.”

“It’s true.”
“Prove it then.” He’s drunk enough to consider it. I grind
my hips against his manhood. “I’ll let you show me
something else if you show me the coldies. Never seen one
before.” I play with the whiskers of his beard. “I thought
you’d show me a whole new life…”
That does it.
Duncan steers me through the throng and grabs a
growler of swill for the trip. I paw at him, a new notion
coming to me. “Shouldn’t we bring the lads some?”
“What lads?”
“The lads guarding the coldies.”
He grins. “That’s a ﬁne consideration.” Grabbing a
couple growlers of swill, we stumble away from the party.
I’m glad I asked for the tour, despite the toll. The trip is
not short, nor is it innocent. Duncan paws me drunkenly
and pins me twice against a tunnel wall as we go down.
Each time, I roll the back of my knuckles against his
manhood and say, “Soon, my love.” I make sure to
remember each of the turns. Twenty steps down the third
tunnel, ﬁrst right. A hundred steps, down the ladder.
Gods, the drug they put in the wine is strong.
I feel like I’m wading through melting butter by the time
we hit the gravLift down to the mines. Duncan pukes in the
corner and wipes his lips, laughing as he washes his mouth
out with swill from the growler. As he retches again, I
quickly strip the haemanthus he pinned to my dress and
grind it into the mouths of the open growlers we carry for
the boys. By the time he’s wiping his mouth, I’ve put the
corks back in. I don’t think he saw.
The gravLift spits us out into a dark cavern lit by
glowlamps. The grinding racket of drills mauls my ears as
we stumble together toward the mining teams.

When I visited my father’s drillteam, I remember feeling
wonder as I saw how important he was. A provider. A real
man that I got to bring lunch to. It seemed so exciting back
then. But this pit is infernal. Wet heat suﬀocates
everything. The noise is unbearable. Men mill about the top
of a tunnel where down deep a clawDrill burrows into
Mars. Red, evil light glows up from the pit. HaulBacks
dump hissing haultubes of helium-3 on the lip of the mine
and rappel back down. Chain gangs of slaves heft the loads
in metal backpacks and take them down another tunnel.
There must be hundreds of them. Red Hand men rove along
the chain gang lines with scorchers and pikes that glisten
with electricity at the tips.
“Darran!” my husband calls to a sweating Red man with
a gut the size of Cimmeria. The man shoves a boy with a
hairless face out of the way and comes to give Duncan a
hug.
“A man now, I hear!” Darran rumbles. “Is this the wee
lass who’s done the deed?”
“I scored well!” Duncan mumbles. “All the other blossoms
are stumbling drunk, and me sweetheart here wanted to
bring you poor nightshifters some evening swill!” He leans
in. “And get a look at the coldies.”
“That’s a lass!” Darran says. “You did well.” He thumps
him on the shoulder and we hand over our growlers. I hope
they can’t taste the haemanthus. With the heat down here,
I doubt they’ll gainsay anything cold. Darran asks me a
question. I mumble a sweet reply and curtsy. I tip over and
the men help me up, laughing.
Dusting my skirts, I pout and scan the line of slaves.
There’s Oranges, Reds, Browns, a half-dead Blue, Grays,
but no Obsidians. “Duncan promised me coldies.”
“Can’t let Duncan fall ﬂat already,” Darran says. He
bellows at his men to bring up one of the ice bitch teams.
Several minutes pass. Then I hear a clattering. A team of

twelve Obsidians locked together with heavy iron chains
shuﬄes forward, driven by several men with stunpikes.
“Warrior race, my ass,” Darran says. “They even got a
queen now. But who’s your king, bitch?” He pokes one of
the Obsidians with his pike. The tall woman grunts and
glares at him. Her body is covered with winged symbols.
“Duncan, there’s the one you got yourself.” Darran points
to a hunched woman covered in grime and stunpike burns.
Volga. It’s barely been two days since I’ve seen her. But
she looks as if it’s been ﬁve years. Her bare feet are bloody
and shaking against the cavern ﬂoor. Her face is obscured
by her hair, but her eyes stare distantly at the feet of
Darran.
“Oh, they’re so dreadful, like idiot bears,” I say. At the
sound of my voice, Volga looks up. She allows only a bare
glimmer of recognition. I touch my head as though faint.
“Oh, there’s evil in those bottles, Duncan.” Volga’s eyes
dart to the growlers Darran has passed to his men. “I feel
faint, take me out of this heat.”
“All right, coldies, back to work. Zoo’s over.” Darran
shouts at her and sticks her in the side with his pike. She
grunts and trudges on. One foot after the other. Before she
disappears back into the mouth of the tunnel, she glances
back at me and gives the barest of nods.
—
The party is still in full swing by the time Duncan and I
stumble back. Some hard-eyed Reds loiter around the
fringes. They’ve got pistols on their hips. That’s not good. I
smile at one, and he doesn’t smile back. Soon they’ll start
taking the girls back. I wanna be ﬁrst, else I might not get
as free a roam of the place. I still have to ﬁnd Victra.
“I don’t want to dance anymore,” I say to Duncan.

“But the lads will wonder where I’ve gone!” he says. “Did
I marry a dead stone?”
I reach my hand to his manhood and feel a minor swell.
“I don’t want to dance anymore.”
Duncan’s home is not grand. I might have thought it so
had I not seen Hyperion, and he thinks it so because he
hasn’t. He proudly shows it oﬀ, like it wasn’t abandoned by
the people that did live here. It’s big enough for a family of
six. A small kitchen with trophies on the wall—which he
boasts on about until I pull him toward a bedroom. He sits
on the edge of the bed and looks at me nervously. The
music from the party is a whisper through the stone. “It’s
too dark,” I say. So he searches for a glowlamp. When he
ﬁnally ﬁnds it, he turns back, nervous, and pats the bed
beside him. I sit.
Maybe I can talk with him. Maybe he can help us. He
knows this is wrong. “This ain’t your home,” I say,
regarding his search for the lamp. He shakes his head.
“Where is your home?”
“Don’t have one anymore. Rat War made sure of that.”
He plays with the edge of my skirt. “And you? You ain’t one
of the ﬁsh.”
“Lagalos.” I wait for a sense of recognition. But there
ain’t one. “How long you been with the Hand?”
He rubs his neck, reminded of something he’d rather
forget. “Three years, I’d reckon. Take oﬀ your dress.” It
sounds almost like I have a choice. “Please.”
I stand up and I go to move the shoulders of my dress.
“Three years, eh?”
I run my tongue against Fig’s molar as he frowns at me.
“Take it oﬀ,” he says more aggressively.
“Why?”
“Because you’re my wife.”
“Why?”

“Because I…” He drunkenly searches for an answer. “I
picked you. Listen, I want to be kind about this. But…”
“Makes two of us.” I sigh. “Sometimes kind just ain’t in
the cards.”
He rises from the bed, quicker than he looks, and grabs
the back of my head to stick his tongue in my mouth. I let it
worm there until he’s distracted by his own pawing of my
body. He looks down at my skirts so he can lift them, and
his ﬁngers are trying to ﬁnd my insides between my legs
when I pop the molar. There’s a ﬂood of liquid into my
mouth. It is hot at ﬁrst, but then grows cold as ice.
DNA calibration complete. V-7 antipersonnel system
ready for deployment, the parasite says from within. I
wondered how Fig kept it from melting her own ﬂesh.
I think one thing as I stroke Duncan’s face and he looks
up at me, mouth open, eyes closed, tongue wet and
probing. This will be loud.
I shove him in the chest. He stumbles over the edge of
the bed and half-falls. I grab a pillow and spit the acid from
my mouth, taking care to only get his stomach and legs. It
splashes over him. Nothing happens. He frowns in
confusion, lunges upward knowing something is wrong,
grabs my throat with his metal arm.
Then the acid activates.
First go his clothes. He smells the smoke, glances down,
and screams bloody murder as the acid eats into his skin.
His ﬁngers bruise the muscles of my neck, but I don’t
bother trying to breathe. He’ll let go soon enough. I shove
the pillow against his face as he goes on screaming. The
sound muﬄes and I push at him to keep the acid from
spreading from his gut and legs to me.
Sure enough, he lets go my throat and scrambles back
from me, thrashing as the acid eats into his intestines and
thighs. Pools of red muscle bubble and soon I see bone. I

keep after him, rushing around him to keep the pillow over
his face as he tangles himself in the sheets from his
thrashing.
“There’s a neutralizing agent,” I hiss into his ear. “Tell
me where the Gold is, and I’ll use it.” I pull the pillow from
his face. He tries to scream out for help, but I shove it back
down before he can. “How are they gonna treat you if you
got no legs? They don’t got replacements, I wager. You’ll be
a freak. A crawling, leaking freak. Talk fast or you’ll have
nubs, oldboy.”
I pull back the pillow.
“Can. F-f-f-fourth l-l-evel. W-we sealed her in the old jail.
M-m-make it stop. Make it STOP….”
I pat my dress. “Sorry. Musta left it in my pants.” I push
the pillow over Duncan’s mouth as the acid eats on. I don’t
know why, but I leave his eyes uncovered so he can watch
me watch him die. Just feels right.
The acid is something mean. In less than a minute, it eats
through his intestines, then his spinal column as well as his
legs.
Soon he’s dead.
I’ve got one tooth left.
I stand over his corpse slapping myself, trying to shake
oﬀ the stupor of that damn wine. There’s no shaking it oﬀ,
it seems. They drugged us good. I hope I got the Reds in
the mines just as bad. How long will it take for them to
start teetering? For Volga to get ahold of one of their pikes?
How many of the girls will have had the guts to use the
teeth? That’s the real concern. Freckles and Lion, sure. But
the rest? I didn’t think of the timing. With as many Red
Hand men as I’ve seen around here, they’ll be butchered
unless I free Victra.
I gotta move.

I search Duncan’s body and strip his pistol, making sure
the railgun’s magazine is ﬁtted right. Scouring the house, I
ﬁnd a well-worn pulseRiﬂe and an Obsidian axe. I leave the
axe, and try to recall how Volga taught me to prep a riﬂe as
we schlepped through the highlands. I get it wrong twice
before relaxing and letting my hands remember on their
own. The riﬂe makes a droning sound as it signals it is
ready. Lovely.
Riﬂe shouldered, pistol tucked into my skirts, I head out
the front door.
Six Red Hands stand waiting for me on the walkway
outside. Tails shivers amidst them. She points at me with a
ﬁnger, mumbling something inaudible.
Shit.

***LyriaI strain against the rope that ties me to the mess hall table

as the blood-crusted hammer hits my pinky. Pain explodes
in my head. My stupor shatters into a thousand pixels. I
reel back, gasping for air. The bone’s busted. The skin’s
swelling and trickles of blood are leaking around the dent
the hammer made. Harmony twirls the hammer and leans
back. Several more of her boys prowl around the old Gray
mess hall. They don’t seem to mind Duncan’s dead.
I could spit the last tooth in her face right now, but it’s
not just my life I’d be trading.
“I’m waiting for your answer, girl,” she says. “You got
nine more ﬁngers. Ten toes. Two tits. One cunny. And then
we get creative. How’d you kill Duncan?”
I do nothing, because I’ve been prisoner enough times to
know doing something gets you hit again. “I hid a ﬂask of
acid in my shoe. Your boys didn’t check my shoes.”
“Why not?”
“You tell me. They’re your idiots.”

“And you just happened to have acid on you?”
“It’s war, ain’t it? Fun things ﬂoatin’ around.”
“Why’d you kill him?”
The woman seems to be expecting me to spout some
ideology, or whimper about how unfair it is. Harmony’s evil
creeps along my spine as I meet eyes with her and shrug.
Figure she only likes one kind of person. “Don’t need a
husband.”
She surprises her men with a laugh. A door creaks and
she looks up. “Picker,” she says. “Just the man I wanted to
see.”
He goes rigid, glancing at the other men, at the hammer.
“What’s what, boss?”
“What’s what is that upstairs, poor Duncan’s guts are
melted through.” She looks at me with a little smirk.
“Marriage ain’t for everyone. But when I ask for breeders,
it ain’t so I can lose ﬁghters, is it, Picker?”
“No.”
“No, what?”
“No, Mother. I’ll kill her right—”
“Picker. You owe me one breathin’ ﬁghter, not a dead
breeder.” She twirls her hammer. “Doncha?” He eyes the
hammer and nods. “I got this stomach thing, right? This
ulcer that just burns all through the night. Hard enough to
keep sleep with it gnawing into me. Now I gotta try and
sleep fearful my men can’t even sniﬀ out a Gamma.” Her
eyes ﬂick to me. So this is it, then. My tongue ﬁnds the
molar. “I can smell a pet rat through water. The stink…”
She breathes deep. “So many old memories. But watch her
lie through those rat teeth, boys. Watch her try to slink in
with us.” She taps the table with her hammer. “What clan
are you, lass?”
I look her in those eyes, with plans to melt them out of
her skull.

“My name is Lyria. I am the last Gamma of Lagalos.”
“Lagalos,” Harmony replies, searching for the memory.
“Camp 121. It was an easy cleanse. Almost got a Telemanus
for the eﬀort.”
“You killed my family. Their names were—”
Before I can ﬁnish, she slams the hammer down on my
left index ﬁnger. I see ﬂashes of white from the sudden
pain, and hear a scream. But it ain’t mine.
Harmony looks over my shoulder. I twist my head around.
One of her men wobbles in through the open door, halfmelted neck and torso leaking blood. He pitches forward
onto the other man at the door. The man catches him and
then starts to scream, holding up his hand as the acid
begins to eat it too.
“How many of you are there?” Harmony shouts at me.
She slaps me so hard I lose track of my eﬀorts to open the
molar. By the time I collect myself, she’s up and out of her
chair. I missed my chance. Harmony unbuckles her pistol as
she hears more screaming from the township. She tosses
her hammer to Picker. “Find out how many others there
are. Rest of you, with me.”
Picker stares at the door as it slams behind them,
muﬄing the distant screams. Then he turns with a hateful
look twisting his face. “Ya dumb slant. Throwing me under
to the boss…” He gets real close to my ear and runs the
hammer over my lips. “That’s a bad lass.”
He sits on the edge of the table. “Now, I’m not sayin’ I
was fond of Duncan. Fact is, this job’s got me a little
pinned, and he was making some moves, you know. But…”
He taps the table with the hammer. “Man’s got his orders.”
He leers in my face. The broken veins of his nose look like
Hyperion traﬀic arteries this close. “You weren’t exactly a
looker before, but if you don’t tell me how many girls you
got pissin’ acid, well, not even the dead’d kiss you.”

I don’t want to waste my tooth on him.
And I don’t have to.
Behind Picker, a Red girl opens the door and slips
through. It is Freckles. One hand rubs at a dark stain on
the right side of her dress. She did it then. The other hand
is hidden in its right pocket. Her hair is tangled, and her
face maintains its dazed expression when she sees what’s
happening. She draws her right hand out from her pocket
to reveal a tarnished pistol.
“Shoot him,” I say.
The color drains from Picker’s face as he turns to see the
young woman he collected not a day ago now holding a gun
on him from ﬁve paces. His hand reaches out. “Careful with
that big iron, lass. You could hurt someone.” He takes a
step forward. “Just set it down, right?”
The pistol shakes in her hand.
“Shoot him!” I shout.
Picker takes another step forward, hesitating when he
sees her ﬁnger stiﬀen on the trigger. “Think of all the times
Gamma did your blood wrong,” he says. “All the times your
sibs were sick. How fat they got getting those boxes. While
you sat with a bowl of sludge. That’s a Gamma right there.”
Freckles blinks as he gestures to me. “ ’Course she wants
to get your hands dirty for her. But you ain’t bad blood. Just
set—”
The gun ﬂashes. It’s a small caliber, so his head only
seems to lose its regular dimensions when the bullet goes
into it. Picker doesn’t fall. He seizes, gasping like a driller
with rust lung. She shoots him again, this time in the chest.
He ﬂops down and lies twitching with his eyes open.
“Is he dead?” she asks.
“Well, he ain’t talkin’,” I say. She shudders in horror.
“Freckles. Hey, lass. I never asked. What’s your name?”
“Vanna.”

“Vanna, I’m Lyria. Do me a kindness and untie me?”
“You’re really a Gamma?” Vanna says, and the barrel of
the gun drifts toward me. I go dead still.
“Yeah. That a problem?”
“You’re not fat enough to be a Gamma.”
I laugh. Of all things.
The gun goes oﬀ, slamming a round into the rope on the
table and ricocheting past my ear. I jerk my head away,
ﬂooding with adrenaline.
“Sorry!” Freckles cries. “I thought that would work!” She
tried to shoot the rope in half.
“You crazy? Just use a bloody knife. He’s probably got
one in his pocket!”
Picker is still twitching when Freckles searches his
pockets and stands back up with a vibroKnife. She mutters
apologies as she cuts me free.
Wincing from the two mangled ﬁngers, I pull my hand
from the ropes and bolt to my feet. Blood rushes to my
head. When I blink the spots away, Freckles stands
shivering over Picker. I pull the gun from her loose ﬁngers.
She looks over at me as I check the magazine. Twelve
rounds left.
“Where are the other girls?” I ask.
She blinks as if coming back to herself. “Don’t know. I
saw them take you, out the window.” Her hand rubs at the
blood on her dress again. “Came soon as I could. W-what do
we do?”
There’s no right answer. Who knows if enough guards
drank the swill in the mines? If the girls hid well enough? If
I put enough haemanthus in there to do the trick? Or if
Volga could convince the others to help her overpower
those guards left standing? What should I do?

Even with a pistol, I’m no freelancer. Hell, I’m not even a
Red Hand soldier. I can’t help the girls. I need someone
built for war.
The township is in turmoil as Freckles and I slip out onto
the walkway. Up the town’s tiered stone levels, melting
men are stumbling onto walkways and bridges outside their
homes. Their friends, many drunk, run to help them, but
then push them back in fear that the acid will spread to
them. The acid eats through a cable of a bridge and sends
six men spiraling through the air to land ﬁve levels down
on the mine ﬂoor. One splits his head open on a table.
Several others lie calling for help, unable to move. Drunk
men rush to help them.
Several childwives I know are running up the levels
toward the mine’s entrance. Red Hand men run to cut them
oﬀ. I see Lion leading a couple of girls into a tunnel several
levels up. Is she carrying a pistol?
Harmony’s two levels above, shoving a man without a
face oﬀ her and charging into a home. There’s gunshots
from inside. Knowing that a girl just died because of me
woulda once put me on my heels, but all it does now is
make me focus on the Can, the fortress the Grays would
have used as barracks back when the mine was operating.
Its metal walls squat over the mine, and it’s connected to
the township by cable ladders hammered into the stone
four levels up. Freckles and I rush to the ladder and begin
to climb. We abandon it on the next level as we see men
coming down. I hiss at Freckles to follow me into a house
as a man leaves it. His wife stumbles back from the door,
clutching a newborn as we shove in. I make a quiet motion,
and she doesn’t scream when she sees my pistol. In fact,
her whole face changes.
“We gotta get to the next level,” I say.
She leads us to the second ﬂoor of the home and
gestures out the window to a cable. “Connects with the one

above.” She glances at my two mangled ﬁngers. “Can you
climb it?”
“We’ll ﬁnd out.”
“What are you doing?” she asks.
“You should probably stay inside,” I reply before
swinging out.
It isn’t easy, but tucking the pistol into my pocket, I scale
the cable hand over hand. Aengus would smile to see all
that exploring wasn’t in vain. Freckles manages to follow
me, a bit slower until she starts using her legs to push oﬀ
the wall.
“Psst,” a voice whispers as Freckles crawls up to the
sixth level. I turn to see Lion’s dark face staring out from a
tunnel between two houses. “Is it safe?” A dozen other girls
peer out from behind her.
“Not yet,” I say. “Wait here, and we’ll tell you when to
come.”
Freckles and I use a stone stairwell to make the seventh
level. From there, we cross the cable bridge to the Can. I
pull Freckles behind some crates as the door bursts open
and a dozen men pour out past the crate and over the sky
bridge to help their fellows below.
Seems most of the boys were drawn below by the
screams. How do I know that? They’re moving down
diﬀerent stairwells than I am. On opposite sides of the Can.
I lean to get a view oﬀ the edge and see them going across
diﬀerent sky bridges.
How did I know they were there?
Or that the men were coming through the door?
Or that Freckles is just oﬀ my right hip?
It’s not sight or sound, it’s just a sense. A low-frequency
humming in my head. A sort of texture of movement. The
parasite. Not broken completely after all. I don’t know what
it’s doing, but I like it.

The door to the Can is little more than a sheet of plastic.
It covers a hole they must have welded into the Can to give
it access from the sky bridges. It leads to a dark hall
stocked with Republic rations. We pass storerooms ﬁlled
with boxed electronics, foodstuﬀs, stolen fur jackets, and
helium-3 canisters.
Finally near a stairwell, I see the level signiﬁer. Level
seven. We’re three ﬂoors down from where Duncan claimed
Victra is being kept. About to rush up the stairs, I push
Freckles into a room and close the door at the feeling of
soldiers coming up.
We wait with our backs pressed against the wall as their
boots clatter the metal hall outside. Beside the door, I aim
my pistol where the ﬁrst man will come in. None does.
Freckles looks at me after. “How did you know?”
“I heard them,” I lie.
She’s about to answer when I nod to the room.
It’s someone’s quarters. Across from a rumpled bed lies a
mound of Gold sigils nearly half a meter high. I approach
and see several carved ﬁgures sitting on a shelf, almost as
if the sigils are an oﬀering for them. A sacriﬁce. A military
jacket hangs from a chair set in front of a table with
organized rows of weapon parts and maintenance kits. The
glass ﬂoor is covered with rugs. I lift one and see the
township through the glass.
This musta been the room of the Mine Magistrate.
Ain’t hard to guess who lives here now.
I unbutton my pants and take a squat. “What are you
doing?” Freckles says, wide-eyed.
“Had to piss. Seems like the best place. Look for a map.”
I search the room with Freckles when I’ve ﬁnished and
we ﬁnd a paper map taped to the wall above a
communications console. I trace our route to the jail cells
and then look down at the coms equipment.

It’s all alien to me.
I ﬁddle with the buttons, but only get bursts of static and
the internal coms of the Red Hand. I stop on one when I
hear a man shouting: “She got Darran, they’re coming…
they’re—”
Something cuts the signal short. I hammer at a few more
buttons.
“Do you know what you’re doing?” Freckles asks.
“What does it look like?”
“Well, what are you tryin’ to do?”
“I’m trying to get a signal out.”
“Me pa was the radio signal operator in my camp. Let me
try.” She edges me out of the chair. I breathe over her
shoulder watching her work. “It might take a second.”
“We don’t have a second.”
She shrugs and goes back to working. Unable to just
wait, I scour Harmony’s room for anything we can use. I
ﬁnd two razors in a box, and a heavy breastplate of a Gold’s
pulseArmor sitting on a rack at the foot of the bed. I can’t
tell if the battery works or not.
I try to concentrate to get some help from the parasite,
but it is dormant. Freckles gives a little cheer and motions
me over. “It’s only a broad transmission. I don’t know how
to call anyone. Or if this thing even can.”
“How far will it go?” I ask, taking over the chair. She
shakes her head. I look back at the microphone. If I
broadcast Victra’s name, then her enemies will come here,
and she seems to have a lot of those. Can this signal even
reach Republic territory? They won’t beat the Ascomanni if
they’re nearby, and may not be able to reach Victra if this is
Obsidian territory. So who’s left?
With a smile, I lean toward the microphone.

***EphraimTwo weeks of searching in vain has netted us little but

debris and close shaves with both Republic and Alltribe air
forces. Electra and I have given up hope, and were it not
for Pax, and had we someplace to go, we would have given
up the search yesterday.
I drew the night shift today. As the kids grab a few hours’
sleep, I hunch over the controls and watch the fjords below.
Our passive sensors throb, detecting no emergency
transponders. Volga is dead. I run a ﬁnger along the scar
forming over Electra’s incision. The heartspike the Alltribe
put inside me jiggles within its container. Every day that
passes makes my heart feel more and more like that spike,
artiﬁcial and one big joke.
A weak signal crackles through the static. “Red…base at
coordinates.” I frown and adjust the sensors. “Repeat, the
whole bloodydamn…at 46 degrees…we…under siege. All…
and enemies of Red Hand…call for your aid. Repeat…”
I know that voice as it rattles oﬀ the coordinates.

It comes from a ghost.
I trigger the ship’s internal alert systems at maximum
volume. Half a minute later, Electra and Pax are stumbling
through the hall rubbing sleep from their eyes. “If it’s
another false alarm, I’m going to hack oﬀ your—”
I interrupt Electra and play the recording. The two kids
hunker down in the seats and help me compile the message
from the scattered fragments until it’s as clear as we can
make it. Lyria is under siege at what she claims is the Red
Hand headquarters. Her hail is for any and all enemies of
the Red Hand to come to her aid. Lyria was likely kept in a
cell near Volga. If she is alive, then Volga might be with her.
I dare not even hope.
Pax immediately begins setting course for the
coordinates. I slap his hand away. “If that’s the Red Hand
headquarters, we’re gonna need more men.”
“Obsidian are scratched,” Electra says. “They’ll just
capture us. Republic?”
“They won’t pay any attention to our hail,” Pax says. “We
have emergency codes, but if there were Howlers on Mars,
they would have answered our earlier broadcasts. Even if
we can get the message to Uncle Kieran, it’ll be too late.”
“Republic and Alltribe are a ﬁnger’s twitch from all-out
war,” I say. “They’ll both think this is some sort of trap. Not
to mention if they ﬁnd out you two are on my ship, then
we’re in the crosshairs of every mercenary band looking for
a payday.”
“Then who’s left?” Electra asks.
“Mars,” Pax says. Electra and I look at him for some
semblance of clariﬁcation. “We need to boost Lyria’s
signal.”

***Lyriaenormous weight of the
Gold breastplate as we make our way down the hall toward
the jail. I lead with my pistol out, trying to make the
parasite work again. I can’t tell where anyone is.
Everything echoes in the metal halls. Men shout in the
distance. Boots hammer stairs. Doors slam. Freckles and I
creep behind three men who stand inside some sort of
transparent coms room, washed pale by the light of
holograms. Maybe they didn’t notice my signal go out.
Maybe it didn’t go out. Most of the security globes are
dark, but enough are alive to show the slaves unlocking
themselves in the mines around the bodies of their
overlords. A group of them gather around Volga. Blood
drips from her head as she cradles a riﬂe and shouts at
them.
There you go, big girl.
Then one of the men leans over his screen and goes stiﬀ.
My voice ﬁlls their room. We’re stuck halfway down the
RECKLES STAGGERS UNDER THE

hall. They know. Freckles looks at me in fear and I shove
her into a maintenance closet. “Wait here for me.”
“Where are you going?”
“Just wait here with the weapons. I’ll be right back. Do
not come out if you hear me scream.” I shut the door as she
nods. I grip my pistol. Men are coming from both
directions. I drop my pistol and get on my knees.
“There’s the bitch.”
They bowl around the corner with riﬂes drawn, and I say
the only thing I can think up with enraged psychos running
toward me: “I’m with the Gold. I have information to sell
Harmony.”
I barely duck a boot aimed at my mouth. I catch it on the
head instead and tip sideways. Someone’s grabbing my
hair. “What information?”
“I know where Julii’s other daughters are.”
—
The day my clan saw the sky for the ﬁrst time, we toured
the Can. Pa saw how unimpressive I found its jail. He told
me it’s a little jail for little crimes; anyone guilty of a big
crime got the lash or the gallows. The jail was meant for
loudmouth drunks, disobedient miners to cool their heads,
and sometimes rats to spill their clan’s secrets for a little
cheese.
I don’t know why, but I asked him if he ever turned rat,
and he just grew quiet.
This mine’s jail is as small as ours was. But instead of
drunks or miners, it is stuﬀed a dozen to a cell with
starving Obsidians and Reds. The smell as they throw me
into a cell is tremendous.
Like I hoped they would, they’ll lock me up until
Harmony can come up from the chaos below. Things sound

like they’re settling down. I hope Lion is still hidden.
There is only one other prisoner in my cell, but her long
legs take up most of it. Victra sits hunched on the ﬂoor. She
doesn’t move as I sit up from where the guards threw me.
She wears tattered pants that barely reach her calves. Her
shirt is torn and bloodied over her muscular shoulders. A
wound oozes blood from her head.
She doesn’t even look at me. I can’t imagine the pain
inside.
“Victra…” I say. She doesn’t reply. “Victra, I’m here to—”
The jail door slams open. A dozen sets of boots come our
way. Harmony leads a pack of her nastiest-looking men. “I
thought I left you downstairs. Does anyone have my saw?”
A man pales. “I thought you wanted to use the hammer.”
“Yes, but I also left my hammer downstairs.”
Another man darts behind the corner and comes back
with a saw crusted in old blood. Harmony smiles at him,
glares at the ﬁrst man, and kicks the cell door. “What’s this
bullshit about her other girls?” She spits. “Like the Julii
would risk telling someone like you. How did you get the
acid in?” She kicks the door again. “Where is it hidden?”
“Up your cootch,” I say.
She points the saw at me. Then there’s a shout. “Got one
of them.”
They drag a dead girl in. Harmony pushes through her
men as they lay her out on a table at the far side of the
room. Their backs are turned. I snap my ﬁngers at Victra
until she looks at me.
I pop the tooth.
Without changing her broken expression, Victra coils her
legs under her. The acid releases into my mouth. She
thrusts her manacles at me. When the acid goes cool,
aligning itself to recognize my DNA, I dribble a line of it at
the bridge between her cuﬀs. Then I spit the rest at the

lock of the cell. It begins to smoke as it eats through the
casing.
“It’s in their teeth,” Harmony murmurs after inspecting
the dead girl. She wheels around. “It’s in their teeth!”
Before the men can turn back to the cell, the lock makes a
satisfying clonk.
I’ve never been to Mercury or its Hippodrome. But I’ve
seen videos of old chariot races. When the horn sounds,
there is a rippling of muscle, a stir of dust, and everything
becomes…heightened.
Victra bursts from the cell.
Wounded, tired, spent from labor, she isn’t what she
should be. But by killing her baby, these men get the Victra
they made.
She kills the ﬁrst man by breaking his back with a kick to
his lower spine. The second, she kills so she can use him
and his thick blast vest as a shield. His body erupts when
his boys ﬁre on them. And then Victra is amongst them, not
blocking their attacks as they come one by one, but
pouncing on them, breaking them as she pivots to break
the next. Those she doesn’t kill are mown down by their
friends. Bullets and pulseblasts ricochet around the prison.
I lie ﬂat and two pulseblasts almost take oﬀ my feet.
Harmony gets one look at this, aims down her riﬂe, and
shoots one of her own soldiers in the back of the neck as
Victra throws him through the air between them. He
knocks Harmony down, and when she gets up, shaking her
head from the collision, she sees Victra covered in gore,
crushing men in her rampage forward.
Like a good cockroach, Harmony bolts.
Victra tries to give chase, but the Red Hands throw
themselves like madmen in her path, eager to let Harmony
escape even if it costs them their lives. Victra takes them
up on that oﬀer.

When she takes her foot from the shattered back of her
last victim, the room is still but for moaning prisoners.
Victra hunches, breathing heavily, bullet through her
shoulder, gashes around her legs, something red pulsing
from her right buttock.
Then she walks out of the room. I glance at the prisoners,
who are just starting to look up from their bullet-riddled
cells. They won’t be any use out there. They’re so thin. I
run to catch up with Victra, calling her name in the hall.
She’s already gone. Bloody footprints lead left. I follow
them to the sound of wet thumps, and ﬁnd Victra in the
communications terminal I crept past earlier. Blood gathers
around her bare feet as she absorbs the hologram feeds.
One shows Volga and several dozen slaves ﬁring up a
tunnel at Red Hands. Several hundred more huddle behind
them, ready to pick up a weapon if another drops. They’re
outmatched by the Hand men pouring from the township
down to meet them at the main tunnel.
“You did this?” she asks without turning.
“Yeah. But I think I need some help now.”
She looks over, then back at the screens. Harmony is
running up a stairwell.
“She’s getting away,” I say.
“I am aware.” She squints at the holograms, then sits at
the console to take its controls. “What you are not aware of
is that you have signed everyone’s death warrant. They
have an army camped around the perimeter of the mine’s
aperture. We’ll never get out.”
“I called for backup,” I say.
“Metaphorically or physically?”
“Uh, physically.”
She turns. “Howlers?”
“Like I have their number. I did something called broad
spectrum.”

Her body tenses. “Did you use my name?”
“I’m not an idiot.”
“So you said,” she says, turning back to her task.
Harmony runs from a stairwell into a large chamber with
an open roof to the sky. Fifty men slide down the ladders
dangling from the rim of the roof. Harmony shouts at a
pilot and loads up into a shuttle. They’re airborne a
moment later, rising slowly out of the mine. Victra’s ﬁngers
move over the keys and the camera shakes. The men who
just slid down the ladders point upward. Then I see why.
The sky is becoming smaller as the roof closes. It slams
shut before Harmony’s shuttle can escape. The top wings of
her shuttle snap in half as her ship collides with the closed
ceiling and spins on sputtering engines to crash back down
to the ﬂoor.
Victra stands up.
“Where are you going?” I ask, throwing an arm toward
Volga’s holo.
“To pay a debt.”
“Volga needs your help. We all do!” I shout as she walks
away. “She’s got dozens of men up there. If you die there,
you can’t help anyone.”
“And why would I help you?” she asks at the door with a
turn. On the holo, Harmony is crawling free from the
crippled shuttle. Her men drag her along to a gravity lift.
“Because I helped you. So did Volga. And someone once
told me revenge is patient.”
She stares at me and tilts her head.
“We can get her after. There’s girls down there. Girls that
risked their lives because they couldn’t take it anymore.
Are you just going to let them die like Ulysses?”
She stiﬀens. Her eyes glare at me, then she looks at her
bleeding wounds. “I will need proper armor.”

I call out into the hall. “Vanna, it’s Lyria. You can come
out now.”
A maintenance closet door opens behind Victra, making
her jump. Mops spill out onto the ﬂoor as Freckles
stumbles out. Picking herself up, she looks sheepishly at
the Gold and pulls the breastplate forward. “Ma’am. I
brought you some armor.” She pulls out the razors. “And
these.”
Victra almost smiles.
—
Victra, Freckles, and I look over the bridge down into the
Common. Victra made us hide for ten minutes, though she
refused to say why. Down below, the Red Hand has
managed to gain order. While they haven’t found all the
girls, they’ve found some. Dozens are gathered in the
center of the township and under guard as most of the men
pour toward the main tunnel to ﬁght Volga’s fellow slaves.
Then I see why Victra delayed. Unable to escape from the
top, Harmony’s going out the bottom. She moves across the
Common ﬂoor directing her men at the girls, and taking a
group of more than forty down into the tunnels to link up
with her larger force.
“She means to hunt me now,” Victra says. “Fair enough.”
Victra hands me and Freckles the grenades she scavenged
from the men she killed. “Bring these to me at the bottom.”
And then she jumps oﬀ.
I thought Figment and Volga were top of the food chain
until I see Victra descend into the township. While Freckles
and I clamber down ladders, Victra vaults from level to
level, sometimes two down, sometimes one up, killing men
as she goes. She lands amongst three Red Hand men on a
bridge and throws them oﬀ. She jumps a level up and
destroys a portable gun turret before it’s brought online.

Bullets eat into the stone around her as she jumps down
two levels, dragging her razor through a dozen men as they
descend a single ladder to the second level. She kills the
rest that gather at the base, and then, almost for fun, takes
the riﬂes of the dead and begins popping in and out of
cover, two quick shots, duck, move, two quick shots, duck,
move. Soon all the men guarding the girls in the center of
the township are on their backs or crawling away with
holes in them.
We slide oﬀ the last ladder and rush up to Victra as she
crouches behind cover, scanning for threats. Five rail slugs
are ﬂattened against the ill-ﬁtted armor. I can see through
a hole in her right biceps.
“Took you long enough,” she says, taking the grenades.
Her left ear hangs on by a strip of ﬂesh. I motion to it.
“Stop being distracted.” She tears it oﬀ and puts it under
her breastplate, wheeling as a gun goes oﬀ. Little Lion,
who’d been caught by the Hand men, now has one of their
pistols and ﬁres it at a man limping away until he goes
down. It becomes less funny when she runs up to him and
ﬁres at his thrashing body until her magazine is empty. She
looks up, spattered with blood, not a single emotion on her
face. Victra looks to me. “One of yours?”
“More or less.”
She grunts. “Be right back.”
“I’ll come—”
“No.” She kicks my thigh so hard it goes numb, and then
silently bolts toward the tunnels, killing two men who come
from the main force engaged with the slaves. Then she
disappears. A cramp grips my leg. I stumble up and hobble
after her as Freckles pulls the girls away to ﬁnd a place to
hide. I follow Victra’s wake of dead men until the tunnel
widens and I come out to maybe two hundred Red Hand
men ﬁring down the tunnel at Volga and her men. The

sound is enormous. Victra is crouched behind where
they’ve gathered their wounded. She ﬁnishes throwing
something and turns to sprint up the tunnel. She catches
sight of me and motions me back.
Thoom. Thoom. Thoothoom.
The grenades begin going oﬀ behind the Red Hand
soldiers, tearing holes in their ranks until the whole tunnel
is ﬁlled with dust. The explosions echo away, replaced by a
growing roar down the throat of the tunnel. The slaves rush
up into the dust.
I fall down behind a boulder with Victra, laughing as the
Red Hand disintegrates in front of my eyes. “Don’t just sit
there, you idiot,” Victra says from a knee, and picks oﬀ a
Hand man as he runs half blind out of the dust. “Shoot
something.”
I join her on a knee, steady my arms on the boulder, and
take aim. I ﬁre until I see a woman pushing her way
through the dust, shoving the bodies of her own men into
the path of the freed slaves.
Harmony is trying to escape. I point her out, but Victra is
already on the hunt.

***LyriaI’ve lost sight of Victra in

the tunnel. When her men’s
fortune ﬁnally turned, Harmony left them to die and made
her escape through a side tunnel. Victra and I gave pursuit,
but Victra’s long legs outraced mine, and left me behind.
The gloom of the tunnel is nearly complete, but I can see
my breath blooming in front of my face as I walk the steep
path of a clawDrill.
I stop suddenly, hearing a whisper, and go very still. Long
shadows ripple on the ceiling of the tunnel, not twenty
paces overhead. So that’s why she chose this tunnel. I take
a step, and the shadows stop. Watching me.
There’s gunshots ahead, past where the tunnel bends
downward.
I bolt, no time to see if the shadows are following.
I scramble down the steep tunnel, sliding half the way in
my haste, and ﬁnd Victra crouched behind a rock. She
darts to the next. A pulseblast turns the ﬂoor behind her
molten.

“You left your men to die,” Victra says. She moves to the
next boulder. Two shots sizzle past her before she takes
cover.
“I’ll ﬁnd more,” Harmony says from deeper in the tunnel,
where it widens to form a chamber with slick, dark walls
and no source of light but the acid green spasms of her
ﬁrearm. She must be wearing optics to see down here.
Wait, how can I see? The ﬁgures are murky, like shadows
over ink, but I can make out Harmony as she peers down
her riﬂe’s sights.
“You murdered your own people.” Victra fakes a dodge to
the next rock. Harmony sends a stream of shots along the
path. Victra goes the other way, disappearing into a cavedin section of the tunnel. “You killed Ares.”
“Because he was one of you!” Harmony shoots into the
shadows. “Come out and ﬁght me, bitch.”
I lie in the shadows and take careful aim with my pistol.
“You killed Lyria’s family.”
“Who cares?” Harmony sneers. She checks her riﬂe’s
ammunition gauge just as Victra swings down from above.
Harmony pulls the trigger.
Click.
She exhales and then throws the gun at Victra and
reaches for her bootknife. Victra catches the gun in one
hand and smacks Harmony’s hand. Harmony stumbles
back, ﬁngers broken. The knife clatters to the ground. She
swings at Victra with her other hand. Victra punches the
balled ﬁst, shattering it. I tuck my pistol away and walk
after them.
“You killed her child,” I say to Harmony. Victra cracks a
ﬂare and tosses it at Harmony’s feet. She rips oﬀ
Harmony’s night optics.
“She killed mine,” she snarls, tracking my arrival with
almost as much hate as she does Victra. “They rotted from

a disease we cured six hundred years ago. Why? For what?”
She spits. “For this.” As I watch her froth with hate, she
isn’t the monster I remember. The powerful force that ate
up my brother and family out of this world. She’s just a
woman enraged. It makes her so small to me, I can barely
understand it myself. I pity her smallness, but not enough
to scourge the hate from me.
I hear something behind her. A deep whispering. I edge
forward as she glares out at the world.
“You’ll all burn,” Harmony promises. “I’ve got a
torchShip. Gave the order if I don’t say otherwise, it’ll lay
into this mine with everything it’s got. What it don’t burn to
cinders, it’ll pinch in here under two hundred meters of
stone. You’re trapped in here with me. But if I call in…we
can play another day.”
Victra raises her razor. “I’ll permit you what I permitted
the poet. Choose your last words.”
I creep closer to the whispering.
“I’m valuable to the Republic.”
“Nah.” Victra is about to stab Harmony through the heart
when I grasp Victra’s thick wrist. She frowns at me.
“Trust me. Not like this.”
I walk up to Harmony and rip a ﬂare oﬀ her belt.
Cracking it open, I throw it toward the whispering. In its
light I can see that not far from where she made her stand
against Victra, the ﬂoor gives way. A narrow cleft of rock
leads across a chasm, no doubt where Harmony was trying
to lure Victra to her death.
I kick the ﬂare down the chasm as Victra drags Harmony
forward. The ﬂare lands amongst a pool of pitvipers
gathered near the heat of a hot spring. Warm, clammy air
oozes up.
I turn to Harmony and see her looking down, childish
with fear.

She thought they were her salvation.
“Those are adults,” I tell her. “They won’t kill you. They’ll
give you enough poison to paralyze you, and then they’ll
burrow their eggs inside. Few days’ time, you’ll be gobbled
up from inside out.”
“Poetry in motion. Bye, bitch,” Victra says and then grabs
Harmony’s belt and collar and hurls her into the pit.
Harmony’s arms windmill as she falls amongst the
pitvipers. A nasty bitch thicker than both my thighs claims
her ﬁrst, striking before she even lands. The fangs make a
meaty punching sound as they enter. Harmony grabs
another knife from her waist, but the pitviper is already
coiling around her arms and legs, immobilizing her with
soft rustling sounds as it burrows its head into her lower
stomach to implant its eggs out the womb sack in its neck.
Harmony’s mouth opens in silent pain.
Then, at last, she screams.
I’ve never heard anything like it. Not when I look at her.
Not when I reach the end of the tunnel with Victra and
hear her pain echoing after us. It is the scream of a woman
who lost everything far too long ago. Victra and I hear it,
but we do not turn back.
Harmony lived on pain. She’ll get it to the end. I don’t
miss the lesson.
—
The slaves have left the Red Hand soldiers dying on the
ground in their quest for the surface. We ﬁnd them
gathered with nearly a hundred Red Hand prisoners in the
center of the Common. Volga is giving orders to a group of
bloody men and women, telling them to search for an exit.
Six are Obsidian, the rest Red with crooked Gamma sigils
branded onto their foreheads.

I thought I was numb until I see my girls have come out
of hiding. Lion sits with Freckles on the far wall. The older
girl is crying and holding on to Lion. Lion squirms to
escape and waves to me, her pistol tight in her hand.
Some of the other girls kick downed Hand men. More
women descend from the township, many those who were
already dwelling here. The wives. Some of the slaves watch
warily as the wives pick up riﬂes only to point them at
other wives and push them in with the men. Some throw
stones at their tormentors or pull their hair or try to brain
them with rocks, shrieking with a rage beyond words.
It isn’t my place to stop them.
“Door out is shut,” Victra says.
Volga wheels from her planning to ﬁnd us coming toward
her. She looks like hell, but drops her pulseRiﬂe to wrap me
in a hug. She spares a nod for Victra.
“How did you—” Volga begins.
“Later,” Victra snaps. She picks a piece of metal out of
her bare foot. “Harmony’s…dealt with, but she said they
have a torchShip. If that’s true, we have a problem.”
We do have a problem. While Victra may have sealed the
doors, the camp outside the mine’s entrance is evacuating
in clumsy fashion. Soon we see why. Via the cameras
outside the mine, we watch the highland trees shiver as
something rises out of sight. Soon a shadow stretches
across them as a metal ship maybe six hundred meters long
rises from the sea.
The chair creaks as Victra leans back. “Well, girls, it was
a nice run.”
“Lyria says she got the signal out,” Volga says.
“Scopes are clear,” Victra says. “No one listened.” She
taps the instruments. “Who’d you call, anyway?” A dot
appears on the scanner. Victra frowns and leans forward.
I swallow as more dots appear. “Mars,” I whisper.

***EphraimTwo of the Snowball’s javelin missiles streak toward the

horizon. Thirty more missiles join them, dropped by the few
ships in our ragtag ﬂeet that possess the capability. They
soar ahead in a thin line toward the monstrous six-hundredmeter torchShip and her iridescent shield that blocks our
path to our girls and the last remnants of the Red Hand.
When we received Lyria’s signal after two weeks of
searching, we boosted it so half the continent of Cimmeria
could hear. I did not expect a reply. Pax did. By the time we
reached the North Thermic, our instruments looked like
paint spatter from the incoming signatures. With the two
juggernauts of Mars, the Obsidians and the Republic, busy
assembling Armageddon, the people of Mars woke up.
More than three hundred ships arrived—dated ripWings
ﬂown by Red militia from Acaron, sleek gunboats from
patriotic Silvers of Nike and Attica, war-tested ﬁghter ships
from renegade Republic pilots, civilian cargo-haulers,
ﬁshing ﬂiers, passenger shuttles, most weaponless, with

open decks loaded to capacity with Gammas hastily
assembled from mines, villages, and assimilation camps all
across the north of Cimmeria. All streaking low enough to
sea for their bellies to glimmer with water and salt. All
come to give the Red Hand the ass-kicking they’ve been
begging for. Mars was the ﬁrst planet enslaved by the
Golds. She became the cradle of liberty, and her children
watched as the Reds who started it all were squashed by
what came after. Now they shout: “Blood Red! Blood Red!”
as they tear across the sea.
Only to ﬁnd a fucking torchShip blocking our path.
Pax theorized it would be understaﬀed, with poor
discipline. He was right.
No ﬂak shield devours our missiles. Without Blue allies to
neural-link to the ship or sophisticated AI to control it, the
Red Hand has to go manual. Men will be sprinting through
corridors, barreling down gravity slides to reach the
starboard cannons. It takes them just long enough for us to
draw ﬁrst blood.
Our missiles detonate in a crackling line. Their shields
ﬂash and buckle under the kinetic impact. “Alpha
Squadron: Stage Two,” I intone into the com. “Beta
Squadron: Stage One.”
With the Snowball responsible for boosting the signal,
Pax urged me to seize authority, ordering the other ships to
rendezvous with us over the sea south of the distress
signal. The scattermash of ship captains bickered so much
as they gathered that I took command more out of
frustration than ambition. My extensive vocabulary of
profanity and my badass ship certainly helped establish
dominance over the pack.
According to my plan, the armed ships burst upward as
the torchShip opens up a wall of ﬁre. Meanwhile the
unarmored civilian ships sweep in west and east behind the
shelter of the mountains, skirting the torchShip’s line of

sight to make landfall near the mine to rescue the
besieged.
Hold on, Volga, baby. If you’re there.
Railgun rounds whistle past the Snowball. Half a dozen
of our ships become debris. Even if the Red Hand torchShip
is understaﬀed and a hundred years old, we’re outgunned.
“Alpha: Stage Three.” A kilometer out from the torchShip,
we dive hard at a sixty-degree angle. Screaming tendrils of
turret ﬁre lick out at us. Pax takes us into a mind-bending
corkscrew and then cracks a shot on a whim.
Hot damn, he can ﬂy.
Our railguns pour a quarter of their magazines into the
starboard fuselage of the torchShip, taking out three rail
batteries. Two mysterious black gunboats from Nike with
twice our ﬁrepower unload their main particle cannons.
Fissures of white light divide the world. When they fade,
ten banks of the torchShip’s turrets have been replaced by
a gash of molten metal.
Using the opening, a ﬂight of three rickety ripWings with
Gamma militia sigils swoop into the gap and drop their
payloads before nose-diving between the ship and the sea.
The bombs rupture gaping holes ten levels deep in the
decks. Seawater presses downward from the shockwaves.
Men on ﬁre jump to tumble like embers into the sea.
The Snowball jolts. Our shields collapse as the
torchShip’s particle beam lashes into our port side and
overloads the secondary reactor. Warning lights throb.
“Please silence that,” Pax murmurs. Sweat drips down
his brow. I silence the alarms. I was hesitant to let him ﬂy,
but truth be told he’s better than I ever was or could be. I
don’t have the reﬂexes his DNA gives him on the stick, and
I can’t even consider syncing. Electra waits behind us, a
compact riﬂe across her lap and Braga’s stolen razor
wrapped around her waist.

“Fat bitch is rolling,” she says.
“Yes, but slowly,” Pax drones. “Told you they’re
understaﬀed.”
Out the viewport, the torchShip begins a slow rotation so
that its ﬂaming starboard side will face the sea, minimizing
its exposed proﬁle as it shreds us with the unharmed
topside. The com ﬁlls with mayday calls as the fresh guns
of the torchShip open up. Fireballs bloom. The air
shudders. “Clever bastards,” I mutter. They lower their
elevation as they turn, leaving no more than ten meters’
room between their burning hull and the waves. “That’s a
narrow slip.”
Pax tries a run, but is headed oﬀ by cannon ﬁre. He
banks around. “Gunboat One, Gunboat Two, I need a path.”
“Is that a child?” one of the captains asks.
Pax gestures to me impatiently. I clear my throat.
“Gunboat One, Gunboat Two, are you going to give me a
slagging path or am I going to have to carve it my damn
self?”
“They’re too low to the deck.”
“Not for my pilot.” I set a hand on Pax’s shoulder. Electra
swats it away.
“Register. Form in our shadow.”
“Ephraim, get a sick bag ready,” Pax says.
“I can handle a few G’s.”
“Not these.” Pax banks the Snowball at a sickening angle
to take it low and behind the two gunboats as they sweep in
a parabolic arc back toward the torchShip. Blood thunders
in my head. My stomach reels at the aerial acrobatics.
Our ragtag ﬂeet is being slowly swatted from the sky. The
Snowball rumbles as we fall into a dive with the black
gunboats and level out to skim the water, driving for the
torchShip. Water is caught in our gravity cushion. Spheres
of it ﬂoat around us as we rocket toward the torchShip.

I hold on to the crash padding of my seat. The chop kicks
our belly, heaving us upward. The gunboats unload the last
of their hi-tech javelin and open up with their particle
cannons. Fire laces the torchShip. Something punches a
hole in the fuselage of the left gunboat, sending it skipping
into the water. Its particle beam continues ﬁring as it
tumbles, superheating strips of water. Sheets of vapor
erupt upward. The second gunboat is hit and peels oﬀ.
The torchShip looms before us. The gap between water
and hull barely thicker than a razor. Acceleration pins me
to my seat. The sea is less than two meters below. If we so
much as nick it, it’ll ricochet us up into the hull of the
torchShip at just under the speed of sound.
The cannon on the lateral-facing topside pours ﬁre at us.
Water vaporizes all around. The gap grows, still so terribly
small. We slide between the cannon’s ﬁring solutions, and I
close my eyes. When I open them, we’re into the gap.
Something breaks oﬀ the top of the Snowball. The sun
disappears, replaced by the smoldering underside of the
torchShip. Pax shunts our gravity ﬁeld, forcing us into a
gut-wrenching spin and my organs to thump into my ribs.
He unloads the last of our railgun magazine into the
exposed underbelly. Debris rains down on us. I cover my
head, waiting for the whole ship to fall as the world blurs
past.
Then sunlight.
We spin out the other side and, with a burst of
acceleration, ﬂip upside down and shoot landward. “You
forgot the missiles!” I shout.
Pax smiles.
Thunder claps behind us. I watch through the rear
display as the torchShip heaves upward along her midline,
like a bucking horse, and then succumbs to gravity,
breaking in two down the center. As if a spell’s been

broken, her gravity engines fail and she plummets into the
sea.
I grab the sick bag just in time to hurl up my breakfast
into it.
Electra cackles and pets my head like I’m a puppy.
—
The unarmed civilian ships landed ahead of us on the
outskirts of the mine to unload their cargo. Thousands of
armed miners, ﬁshermen, old soldiers, men, women, and
teenagers roll through the Red Hand, disarming them and
taking prisoners by the hundreds in the camp around the
mine entrace. Since they all saw my green ship delivering
the killing blow to the torchShip, they raise their ﬁsts as we
pass over them to land.
“What are they singing?” I ask, still a bit woozy from the
G’s that the kids seem barely to have noticed. Pax ampliﬁes
the ship’s external ears.
“The Song of Persephone,” he says, and takes us down.
As we watch from the ramp, there is no hysteria in the
victory. No rampant revenge or the beheading of kneeled
enemies. Only a sweeping sense of fraternity and weary
justice that even an outsider could sense. After the
brutality of the Obsidians, it is beautiful.
I spot ﬂags and armbands with the Gamma crest. And
then other crests, other tribes: Lambda, Beta, Alpha,
Omicron, Silver trade icons, Gray mercenary bands, and
more. Already hundreds of Red Hand soldiers have been
gathered on an empty airpad.
These are the demons of Mars. The butchers of Lyria’s
family.
More than half of them couldn’t have been more than ten
years old when the Rising began. Stripped of their weapons

and coats, they look sickly, and they shiver in fear as they
are surrounded by the people they tortured for so many
years. Do they even know why they did it? In defeat,
they’ve abandoned any creed. They huddle not together in
a band, but each isolated and alone in their misery.
I’d pity them if I didn’t loathe them so much.
A crowd of Gammas and their new allies rush toward the
Snowball to celebrate the pilot and his prophetic maneuver
against the torchShip. From a distance, they think it was
me and not the small human by my side. As they see our
faces, they slow and then stop, gathering in a sort of wary
perimeter. Their faces are young and old, all sunburnt.
They hold antique riﬂes, household pistols, even
slingBlades. A ripple of recognition goes through them
when they spot Pax and Electra. Then understanding as
they see the pilot halo Pax wears. It isn’t disbelief on their
faces when he takes it oﬀ. It is fulﬁllment. As if they
believed in something once, grew to laugh at the naïveté of
their own conviction, only to see that they were right all
along.
I sense the weight of the moment, and it chills me.
This is how a legend begins. The First Boy. The Son of
the Rising, fulﬁlling his parents’ promise. He looks afraid to
step into his new world, as if he feared this moment but
knew it would come. I wait for him to look at me to give
him a nod of encouragement. This time, he needs none.
With Electra at his side, he steps past me and into the
crowd, which parts and raises their clenched ﬁsts in salute
as they chant his father’s name.
I follow at a distance.
—
The heavy mine doors dilate open with a groan. The ﬁrst up
the maintenance stairs is a young girl jabbering a woman’s

name. A man shoves his way through the crowd and scoops
the young girl up. They’re hit from the side by a woman
who wraps them in a wild embrace till they are huddled
together crying in a mess of limbs and red hair. This scene
repeats itself until I stand stock-still, dreading my own
reunion with Volga.
I wait with Pax and Electra in the shadow of this
communion. Each of us heavy with dread, fearing we won’t
get to share the joy of the others. Each grime-spattered
face, each weary set of shoulders that comes up the mine
stairs, brings fresh hope and then disappointment. Where
is Volga?
A scrawny Red wearing a tattered, ridiculous dress and
carrying a big riﬂe comes up the stairs. She’s functioning
as a crutch for a huge Gold woman who looks fresh out of a
ten-year stay in hell, stomach still swollen from pregnancy,
but no child in her arms. Victra au Julii. In the ﬂesh. I take
an involuntary step back as Pax and Electra rush to the
woman. She scoops them up at the same time, and holds
them a meter oﬀ the ground in absolute silence. The Red
watches with a faint smile.
“Rabbit,” I call. The Red turns. She’s barely recognizable
in all the dirt and blood and in that stupid dress. When she
sees me, she breaks into a high laugh. She drops her riﬂe
and sits on the ground, laughing so hard I can’t tell when
she begins to weep.
“You brought the army.” She laughs. “You.”
“Where’s Volga?”
“You were right,” she says, looking over my shoulder. “He
did come.”
“Ephraim.” I don’t turn, afraid my eyes will make my ears
liars. Afraid now in the moment. Terriﬁed that while I
remember the good in our past, she will remember how we
parted. What I made her do. What I said. “Ephraim.” I turn

and see her. She has lost at least twenty kilos. Her face is
drawn and tired. Her pants tattered and bloody. Her arm in
a makeshift sling. But she is alive.
“Hello, Snowball.”
“Are you wounded?” Volga asks. “You are shaking.”
I tilt my head. “No. I— Yes, but no.”
She squints. “You came for me.”
“Are you stupid? Of course I—”
Before I can ﬁnish the sentence, her arms are around me.
For once I don’t hold back. I sink into the embrace. She is
my home. She has been since I found her on Echo City.
What a pity I only just realized it.
“Victra, don’t!” Pax shouts.
Volga and I part to see Victra au Julii storming toward me
with a heavy pulseRiﬂe held like a pistol. Volga pushes me
to the side. “Victra. Enough.” I can’t believe my eyes when
the oligarch stops dead in her tracks and Volga sets a hand
on her shoulder. “Enough.”
The Julii stares at Volga, her face coated with blood and
dirt, her eyes gleaming from dark sockets, and it is as if all
her hate turns to anguish. She heaves a horrible sob and
turns away to stumble toward the treeline as if it held
something that was hers.
—
I lean against the wall of the shower, sinking into the heat.
The scar on my chest is mostly healed thanks to the Julii’s
medici. I’ve spent more time with them in her estate than
with Volga. She said she had something to do. I exit the
shower and dress in the clothes the Julii provided. I keep
waiting for the trap to close, but it seems even a Gold can
learn to forgive. Or become too tired for revenge.

A holoCan plays in the living room. I ﬁnd Volga there,
back from her mysterious errand. She sits surrounded by
half-repaired Olympian towers and a sea of chanting Reds
and lowColor, each with a ﬁst clenched in the air as they
chant for the Reaper. Beyond the holoCan’s prism a city of
mountain peaks glows. Attica.
After all this time, it must be fate to end up here after all.
The Reds go silent as Volga mutes the feed. “You’re
awake,” she says.
“Did you complete your mysterious mission?”
Her face falls. “I wanted to see Ulysses. What they did to
him.”
“Oh,” I say awkwardly. She stares at a spot on the ﬂoor,
then wordlessly speeds through the channels faster than I
can follow.
“How can you even follow that?” Undisturbed by the
chaingun of information, she shrugs. “Stop. You’re giving
me a…” I don’t ﬁnish. My train of thought has been
hijacked by the silent stream of faces that ﬂows through
the living room. Volga never settles for long. Five seconds
at a protest in Nike. Two seconds at a strike in a new Red
mine city. Fifteen at two dead Obsidians carried by a mob
through Olympia. Ten at Alltribe Obsidians landing to
retrieve their brethren as pain tanks disperse the crowd
with microwaves. Five of braves knocking down doors
searching for terrorists.
This isn’t what Seﬁ wanted. This isn’t the world she tried
to make. It’s not fair for others to come in and cock it all
up.
“Seﬁ bit oﬀ more than she could chew. Typical Martian,”
Volga mutters.
“Hyperionin ain’t much better, love. We don’t even
chew.”

“They must have been high on God’s Bread,” she says in
contempt of her own people. “As if Mars would want to be
ruled by savages instead of the Reaper.” She whispers his
name. A new reverence.
“Seﬁ isn’t a savage.”
Volga squints at me. “Concussion?”
“Just getting old. I dunno.” I take the controls from Volga
and turn oﬀ the holos. “I think it’s time you ﬁnally tell me
where you’ve been. Hardly had a moment with you.”
“I’ll tell you,” she says, heading to the kitchen. “But ﬁrst
we will need coﬀee.”
“Make mine with whiskey.”
She brings me coﬀee made of coﬀee. Passive-aggressive
little shit.
Over the pot, we share our stories as the sun sets over
Attica. I go ﬁrst. She grins when I tell her about fetching
Pax and Electra from the Syndicate. And listens breathless
to the dragon hunt and my stories of Valdir and Seﬁ. I do
not speak of Fá. My heart breaks when I hear her tale, and
at the end of it, I can only hunch forward and stare at a
small crack in the table.
“I’m sorry.” I meet her eyes. “I’m so sorry…”
She crosses her arms. “For?”
“Everything.”
“Be speciﬁc.”
“Julii rub oﬀ on you much?” She waits expectantly with a
new air of conﬁdence. “For, you know, trying to make you
be like me.” I sigh, feeling exposed. “Without me—” The
words just don’t come.
“Without you, I would be nothing. Still working the docks
at Echo City. Or dead on a stupid battleﬁeld. Or dead a
dozen times before.” She puts a hand over mine. “You

taught me how to survive. I am lucky. Not all girls have a
father.”
That one sucker-punches me.
“Whatever you do, wherever you go…” She pokes my
chest, then her own. “There is no distance between. Do you
understand?” A snort escapes me. She reels back, insulted.
“I am very serious—”
“Sorry,” I say between ﬁts of laughter. “That’s just so…
dripping in syrup. That’s gotta be from Lyria.” She draws in
on herself and I pat her knee. “Hey, hey. I know what you
meant. Me too. Verbatim.” She relents and gives me a
sideways grin.
There’s a knock at the door. Volga rushes to open it. Pax
walks in with a small box. I’ve seen little of him since we
landed in Attica. He wears the crest of a lion on his right
shoulder, and that of a pegasus on his left. He looks as if he
has aged two years. “Your parents?” I ask.
“They say my mother is alive. In captivity, but alive.”
“Oh, kid.” I feel tears welling up and I grip his shoulder.
“Your father?”
He nods. “Alive. But the Golds are preparing a ﬁnal
assault on Heliopolis, and Luna is a mess. No ﬂeet will
come. It’s only a matter of time.”
“I’m sorry.”
He nods and pushes the box into my hands. “Victra
wanted me to give this to you.”
“What is it?”
“Why don’t you just open it?” I sit down. He turns to
Volga and says, “Volga, we haven’t had a chance to meet. I
am—”
“I know,” she says, wide-eyed.
He doesn’t blush away from the recognition. By the way
he looks at her, I know he sees his father’s old friend. Julii

told him. “You should know, Tin—Ephraim spoke very
highly of you.”
She blushes and makes a show of going to make more
coﬀee.
I open the box. Inside is a slim metal disk and a holodrop.
“Victra is proud,” Pax says. “Obnoxiously so. And hasn’t
spoken much since…” He glances at Volga and leaves it
unspoken. “But she owed a debt to Trigg. Without him, she
would have died in the Jackal’s prison ten years ago. She
will forgive your trespass.” He gestures to the disk. “A oneway signal pass to get you past Republic patrols and oﬀ
Mars.”
I play the holodrop. A recording of a ship-to-ship
transmission appears. Xenophon’s face ﬁlls the frame as he
requests approach clearance to the Pandora for a shuttle
bearing Pax and Electra. It is dated the day of the attack on
the Pandora.
I look up at Pax.
“It was Xenophon all along, not Ozgard,” he says. “He
was the intermediary. Victra thought we were making the
exchange. The ﬁrst shuttle destroyed their main sensors,
and allowed the rest of the Ascomanni to approach and
board. He is Fá’s inside man. Ozgard, Amel, both framed.”
I set the holodrop down. “What do you want me to do
with it?”
“Tell Seﬁ.”
“You tell her. You have the coms.”
He shakes his head. “We can’t reach Olympia. Alltribe
has gone paranoid. They think every communiqué carries a
virus. To be fair, the Republic did launch one that took
down a quarter of their ships. Even so, everything goes
through Xenophon. We have no allies left. He’s isolated
her.”
“You want me to go back.”

“Who else could get in there? They’re on war-watch.”
“This is getting ridiculous.”
“I know.” He glances at Volga in the kitchen as the coﬀee
machine somehow overﬂows. Some things never change.
“The older I get, the more I feel for my parents. Especially
my father. Hate him or not. There’s never a right call, just
people who make the hard ones.” He stands. “I have to go
now. If you do not have breakfast plans, I would love you to
join me. I have invited Lyria as well.”
“Depends on the lass here,” I say. Volga nods
enthusiastically from the coﬀee mess.
I walk Pax into the hall. “Are you going to tell her?” he
asks. When I don’t answer, he takes the chain from his neck
and presses Trigg’s ring into my hands. I’d nearly forgotten
about it. “You’re a good man,” he says. I laugh. “Stop.
Whatever you decide, you’ve earned the right to be called
that.”
I mess up his hair and he takes that for answer enough.
“I like him,” Volga says when the door closes. She hides
the coﬀee she made for him behind the bar. “Did he really
ﬂy that ship?”
“Like a Blue.”
I put the chain around my neck and I look down at the
holodrop playing in the box. I have to tell her now. How
does one say something like this?
I know you have always felt apprehensive about your own
race. One part yearns to be one of them, so it idolizes their
virtues and mystery. Another part fears their rejection, and
so demonizes their savagery. With that said, old girl, it has
recently come to my attention that your seed donor is the
most famous person of your race who has ever lived.
Congratulations, you are the daughter of a god. If his
people accept you—which is a dubious proposition—and if
they don’t think you’re an abomination that must be

cleansed, you get to deal with Volsung Fá. A man who eats
hearts for supper. Enjoy your new life.
So I say nothing. Because the world outside doesn’t need
another sacriﬁce. Not this angel. Not my Volga. I put my
hand on hers. “There’s someone I want you to meet.”
—
The bridge that connects the landing pad to the mountain
tower is lined with trees. Nervous, Volga waits behind as I
take a step onto the bridge. I motion her to join me.
Trigg’s monument is made of marble, like so many of the
rest. They captured a fair likeness of him, yet somehow
made him look more noble, which means more Gold. Guess
that’s the way of statues. Sell the myth, forget the man.
Trigg’s jaw is set in determination. His eyes ﬁerce. The
anachronistic shield he holds over a fallen Darrow cracked
and chewed by bullets. Candles from visitors ﬂicker in the
wind. Fresh ﬂowers and baubles are stacked about his feet.
Most are from Reds by the look of the ﬂowers and
oﬀerings, but the rest are seashells and totems from his
home in South Paciﬁca. Some made the pilgrimage to see
the resting place of the Paciﬁc’s most famous martyr. I
wonder if Holiday is responsible for some of those shells.
But no one is here now.
“They say many people come here,” Volga murmurs.
“Well, they’re idiots. He didn’t have a shield. And he died
down there.”
I forget the monument and look down into the shadows.
From the lights of passing ships, I can just make out the
ledge on which his head split open. It’s a cold, empty place,
not like the monument where the orange light of the
candles bathe Trigg in warmth. But he isn’t in either place.
His body was never recovered. He is dust.

“Better he lives up here,” Volga says, and I see the
respect in her eyes for the myth of my husband. It does so
much more for me than words ever could. I don’t really
understand why I wanted her to come. Maybe it’s because I
buried him so deep, and felt that if I could keep her from
knowing too much about him, she would never matter as
much as he did. But she does. Oh, she does.
And maybe Trigg deserves to be this myth. If not for
himself, for others, like Volga, or young sons of South
Paciﬁca who yearn to be brave like he was. Could that be
what the world needs? Not dirty truths, not romantic
paragons, but stubborn bastards who refuse to move?
Like Holiday? Like the great Red prick? Like Seﬁ?
Little cracks already web the feet of the statue. My eyes
don’t linger there. I’m tired of looking for the cracks in
everything. Tired of running. Here with Volga, I should feel
complete. But looking up at Trigg, and remembering the
sense of purpose that gripped Olympia only two weeks ago,
I know I am in the wrong city.
Maybe the world needs another stubborn bastard.
“I have to go back,” I say to her. “I have to tell Seﬁ that
it’s Xenophon. I can’t let her get undone by that little
bastard. It isn’t right.”
She stares at the statue. “You stole from them. Iceborn
do not forgive. They will murder you.”
“Naw. Seﬁ’s…diﬀerent.”
“Then I will go with you.” It takes real courage for her to
oﬀer that.
“Sorry, old girl. That ain’t happening. They know me.
They don’t know you. I won’t be gone long. Hell, I might
even be back for breakfast.”
“Ephraim, you do not owe them anything. We don’t owe
any of these people anything.”
“I’m not sure that’s true.”

“I just found you again,” she protests, but the ﬁght has
left her. Tears well up in her eyes. I could have left in the
night, but she would have followed, and she doesn’t
deserve that from me. “You need me.”
“You’re right about that,” I say. “Damn right.” I stroke
her hair. “You know your people have a word, something
deeper than family: aeta.”
“Tribe,” she says, as if the word was sacred to her,
looking away in embarrassment. I tilt her chin back so she
looks at me.
“You’re my tribe, Snowball. I’ll be back for breakfast.
That’s a promise.”
She smiles hopefully, then bursts into tears. I wrap her in
an embrace, and I know I’d do anything to keep her safe,
and do anything to be with her. But as Freihild said by that
ﬁre, some things are more important.
The servants bring me to Pax as he pores over
battlemaps in Victra’s library. I stand behind a bookcase
and remove the necklace to put Trigg’s ring on my ﬁnger.
When I turn the corner, he stands without a word and
guides me to a gravLift and then to the armory, where I pull
out the old heartspike, and ask if he can do me one last bit
of magic.

***EphraimI crawl along the west wall of Griﬀinhold, sticking to the

shadows godtrees cast in the brazier light. The night
guardsmen on the ice-slick cobbles below are easy to avoid
with my spider gloves and thermal dampening suit. More
diﬀicult were the enhanced radar drones and motion
sensors Seﬁ had installed per my advice. Why’d I have to
be so damn thorough? They nearly ruined my drop from the
Alltribe ﬂier I hitched a ride on from the coastal city of
Nike. Luckily, I followed a murder of crows in.
I reach the pulseShield that encloses my target’s window
in one of the six western towers of Griﬀinhold, and disrupt
the ﬁeld with diamond refractors, creating a slip narrow
enough for me to shimmy through. The room is dark, tall,
and more choked with incense than a ﬁfty-credit Lunese
brothel. Lovely. It also looks as if a hurricane had come
through it. Priceless urns and bits of shattered wood are
strewn about the carpet. Oldboy had a tantrum after his fall

from grace. Good. The big lads outside will be used to
noise.
I slip toward the large four-post bed where a giant
shadow snores. I nearly choke from the alcohol on his
breath. Feeling a bit sinister, I take the wine bottle from his
bedside and crawl onto the ceiling to take a swig and
upend the bottle. Dreadfully expensive wine pours down
over the shaman’s face. He wakes to see a black shadow on
the ceiling above him.
He screams and falls oﬀ the bed.
Laughing my ass oﬀ, I release my gloves and land in his
place on the bed. From the ﬂoor, Ozgard peers up at me.
“Grarnir?”
“Stop shouting, you idiot.” I prop myself on an elbow.
“Those big bastards outside the door will hear if you talk
particulars.” I run a hand up my leg. “Would hate to think
I’m the ﬁrst whore who’s landed in your bed.”
“Grarnir,” he whispers, and pulls himself upright-ish. “I
thought you were Ascomanni.” His wounded eye is covered
in a patch, his mangled hand in splints. Looks like a giant
baby, an eﬀect enhanced by the dewy tears in his remaining
eye. “I knew you would return. I knew—”
“Shut up.” I sniﬀ him. “You drunken lout. Knew you’d be
soused.”
His eyes narrow in suspicion. “Why have you returned?”
“Well, oldboy. I’m here to sort out a particularly sinister
case of milk worm. That’s right.” I pop the datadrop into
my hand and let it roll. “We got ourselves a parasite.”
His eye widens in horror as the drop plays its little bit of
incriminating evidence. “That scheming little maggot. The
two-faced malefactor—”
“He outplayed you, medicine man. No need for bluster.”
“We must tell the Queen.”

“Naw. I was thinking we sit on it. Let Volsung eat her
heart, or whatever else that albino golem has in store, then
make oﬀ with a load of helium and become emperors of the
asteroids.” He stares at me in horror. “Fuckin’ hell. It’s a
joke. We’re gonna blood eagle that big puke. But we gotta
do it right and good, you hear?” I lean forward and tap his
nose. “Problem is, Queen listened to Old Eph, and’s got her
sanctum as tight as Publius cu Caraval’s sphincter. I almost
got pinned twice trying to slip in there. But you, dear
charlatan, can get it to her.”
He shakes his head. “The Queen is possessed of an evil
spirit. She went into a fury when you took children. Trusts
no one but Xenophon, suspects a coup to take her throne.
She even thinks Volsung Fá is not real.”
“Damn.”
“I am still forbidden from her sight, as are all but those
Xenophon permits. Her Valkyrie have closed their ears to
me.”
“Figured you’d have wormed your way back in. Shit.”
“Indeed. Shit.” Big shaman looks all dour. Scheming
leech or not, he’s wounded by Seﬁ’s dismissal. He’s drunk,
sure; but functioning alcoholics are a gift from the gods.
They’re never quite out of the game.
“So, we got a problem then.” I wag the datadrop. “This
here is a nail in the coﬀin for that little puke. How do we
get it to her? Who can play messenger?”
“A jarl,” he says. “She is set to speak before them
tomorrow morning. They slumber in Eagle Rest.”
“Thought security was a little weird. Braves I didn’t
recognize. What’s her speech for?”
“An ambassador from the Republic is on his way.
Xenophon has arranged a peace summit.”
“Uh-huh.” I raise an eyebrow. “Having just been with the
Republic, I very much doubt that. They don’t buy this Fá

story. Think Seﬁ’s lost her bleedin’ mind. No jarls.
Xenophon’s got the playing ﬁeld stacked.”
“The skuggi,” he says in sudden epiphany. I knew he’d
get there. “They bear Freihild’s death as grievously as
Valdir. They can be trusted.” He sighs. “But they cannot
gain audience. Her Valkyrie are loyal, and will never turn
against her word. I could not put skuggi against Valkyrie.
Only evil grows of that.”
“Agreed. I was thinking they could help us liberate an old
bloodstained friend.”
“Unshorn…” he murmurs in obvious fear.
“Now you’re catchin’ on, oldboy.”
—
Ozgard waits for me in the same hangar where I trained
the skuggi and later shot three of them in the face. He
wears his crow-feather cloak, his dragonbone staﬀ, his red
scale boots, and his great fourteen-point elk horn
headdress, tips crusted in the blood of his people’s
enemies. It was a mighty ﬁne sight seeing him try to
squeak out that perforation in the pulseShield outside his
window with all that luggage in tow. But what Ozgard
might lack in ﬁnesse, he more than compensates for in
loyalty. He does not wait alone.
Fetched from their barracks by Ozgard, eighty of my
skuggi spirit warriors surround the rotund shaman.
Gudkind stands as their leader. They eye me with no small
amount of distrust and wariness, especially the ones I shot,
but Ozgard called them here, so they listen.
“Hello, you ugly sods, my name is Ephraim ti Horn,” I
drawl as I waltz before them in my scarabSkin. “I was once
the greatest freelancer in all Hyperion, which means I am
the greatest freelancer who ever lived. But then I met you
pukes. You dogged, creepy assassins of the icy poles have

warmed the cockles of my reptilian heart. I ain’t your
people. You ain’t mine. Let’s get that out of the way. In fact,
I think you’re damn weird, and you think I’m a money slut.
Fine. I could give a tick’s dick what you think of me. But
your Queen.” I pause. “Our Queen needs our help.”
—
The prison of the Alltribe was inherited from the Bellona. It
stands lonely and arcane on the far eastern fringe of Eagle
Rest, connected to the great citadel by means of an
anorexic little bridge with room for no more than two
Obsidians to stand abreast. With thousands of Obsidian
bloodbraves asleep in their barracks, Ozgard waltzes
through the fog that grips the bridge toward six armored
Valkyrie guards. One is Braga, Pax’s bodyguard.
“Shaman!” Braga shouts. “You are not free to roam.
Where are Ulfred and Ulra?” Or something like that in
Nagal. He presses forward. “Shaman! Halt.”
“Braga!” he calls in a voice that is not frail Ozgard’s but
possessed with the myth of the shaman he built to rise
nearly to the top of the matriarchy. “I knew thee as a child.
Did you not listen as you sat upon my knee? Doom visits
those who shed the blood of the servants to the gods.”
“We are in service of the Queen,” Braga rumbles in
irritation.
“And even she serves the gods,” he replies, continuing
forward. “It is not the duty of a servant to blind themselves
to truth. It is the duty of a servant to understand the will of
the master, especially when the master does not. Our
Queen has been deceived—”
“Hollow words. Perhaps they always were,” Braga calls,
lowering her pulseRiﬂe. Her sisters do the same. “Our
Queen believes Valdir covets her throne.”

“Bah! He covets only war trophies and a warm cunny.
You know this!” The Valkyrie ﬂinch when Ozgard lifts his
dragonbone staﬀ. “Strike me, and you will summon the
shadows of the mist.” The Valkyrie look back to Braga,
seized with apprehension.
“Idiots. He is only a storyteller. A drunk storyteller.”
Braga holsters her riﬂe and pulls out her axe, stalking
forward to take Ozgard into custody. Standing before the
armored warrior, cloaked in frail feathers, Ozgard waves
his staﬀ with dramatic ﬂourishes. I begin to laugh. The mist
ﬂashes and Braga stumbles back, her breastplate smoking.
For the smallest moment, she thinks magic has been
conjured. Then experience takes over. Too late. She looks
out over the bridge, not expecting an enemy here in the
heart of their power. “In the mist—” she shouts as her
helmet slithers over her head. The mist stutters with color.
Half the Valkyrie go down before they can activate their
pulseShields.
As the skuggi emerge from the mist to overwhelm the
guards and enter the prison to free Valdir, their jammers go
active and I lose the signal. My turn.
I activate a jamField and drop from the ceiling to land in
front of the two muscular guards outside Xenophon’s room.
To their credit, the sleepy Obsidians do not ﬂinch, and run
straight into the gravity mine I toss in front of me. They
invert and shoot upward, crunching into the ceiling. I lower
the intensity and let them ﬂoat, unconscious. Wait, one’s
not unconscious. Crunch a second time into the ceiling.
“Hang tight, ladies.”
I reach for the door latch to enter Xenophon’s room,
when instinct saves me. The latch is charged with enough
power to melt my brain. That little shit. I strip my spider
gloves, take a canister from my belt and rubberize the
scarabSkin gauntlets. As the spray sets, I set a tripwire at
the far end of the hall, two more gravity mines along the

walls, and a gas trap above the door just to be safe. Then,
with the resin set, I disarm the laser alarm inside the lock,
then the secondary trigger—someone’s paranoid—and then
the mechanism itself.
The door clicks open, the sound contained inside my
jamField.
Xenophon’s room is spartan. Except for the size, it is
suitable for a servant. The White sits facing the ﬁreplace
watching a hologram. The sound is mute outside the
perimeter of my jamField. Wary of pressure traps in the
threshold, I don my spider gloves again and reach inside
the doorframe to crawl up the wall, then the ceiling, until
I’m suspended above him in the shadow of the vaulted
ceiling. I turn oﬀ my jamField.
The White is watching a recorded hologram of a severe
man nearly Seﬁ’s height, but much thinner and full of that
tensile Gold terror. His face is thin, his eyes perfect crystals
behind slanted lids. There’s a man who knows pain. Atlas
au Raa. My heart drop-kicks a beat.
“Salve, Xenophon, the product of all your toil amongst
the ﬂea-bitten is nearly at hand. The asset is hidden within
the crags at the coordinates you detailed. He will act only
upon your signal, which is to be given only if the greater
sum of Obsidian warbands are upon Mars. If they are not,
postpone incitement. Our window is narrowing, but he will
listen. He knows you are my hand. Follow my design and
soon you will be home on the Palatine. In a world of
protean hearts, your steadfastness does not go unnoticed.
When you return to the fold, you will be honored by the
Dictator with the Iron Pyramid. It will be much deserved.
Destroy this message upon receipt. Per aspera ad astra.”
“Per aspera ad astra,” Xenophon echoes, and then plays
the message again. I watch it twice from above. I pieced it
together the ﬁrst time, but it beggars belief. I drop in front

of Xenophon, and stand amidst the hologram. Those pale
eyes go wide and I pistol-whip the White in the face.
Xenophon sprawls backward. I kick them between the
legs, forgetting nothing’s there but a tiny aperture for piss.
The slender creature stumbles back, not calling out in pain,
not showing a lick of anger upon their face.
“Mr. Horn. I did not expect you to return. I knew I was
missing a crucial factor.” With a glance to the door,
Xenophon knows the guards have been dispatched.
I ﬂick the disabled tracker into their chest. “You little rat.
You’re a fucking Gorgon.”
“The proper term is Pavor Nocturnus, a night terror. But
colloquialisms do rule the day.” The White folds their hands
over their tummy and stands erect and paciﬁc as a priest.
“Xenophon, First Frumentarius, Legio Zero Pavor
Nocturnus, at your service.”
“And a frumentarius? I should have guessed it was one of
you psychos.” Special forces spy. The kind that could end
even a centurion’s career with a keystroke. I’d put a canyon
in their face if I didn’t want to watch Seﬁ do it herself. “Seﬁ
will love tearing you to ribbons.”
“I imagine she would. Ever has she feared the Gold
masters. She was wise to fear them. They know all. Of
course, I knew it was a risk to keep the message. In sixty
years, it is the only order I have ever refused. But even I
grow weary in the cold isolation of my duty.” Xenophon
gestures to my gun. “Must you threaten? A little redundant,
considering your skill set. I’ve little chance against you.
Though, if I call the guard, they would pull you apart like
cake.” My eyes dart to the door. “You’re wondering what to
do. This evidence is incriminating, I agree, but two death
sentences are hardly worse than one. And I hear you
already have mine in your belt pouch. A holo of the
incriminating variety.”

I shove the gun against the White’s forehead. “How do
you know that?”
“It is my purpose to know.”
It’s a bluﬀ. The skuggi hate the creep, they’d never rat
me out. They need time, and I need answers. I jerk my head
at the hologram. “You been that bastard’s mole for years?
Since Seﬁ brought you in?”
“Yes.”
“Then it wasn’t that poor Pink who was supposed to kill
her.”
“Oh, no, Amel certainly was an assassin. The peril of
current aﬀairs, I fear. Many Golds pulling strings against
one another, causing all to fray. I detected him quite early,
but when Atalantia activated him, it was necessary to
expose him.”
“The hell are you doing here if not to kill Seﬁ then?”
“Death is sloppy. And my dominus does not abide sloppy.
With a dead queen, the Obsidians would seek the strongest
to lead them. Who is stronger to them than the Morning
Star? Valdir? He loves Darrow. It would do little good to the
Society for the Slave King to be bestowed with such a gift.
Seﬁ must die the proper way, at the proper time, on the
proper planet, with her people along the proper trajectory.
For that, only a frumentarius would suﬀice.”
“And Volsung Fá…”
“But another piece of the puzzle.” Xenophon considers,
enjoying this little bout of honesty. “Perhaps more. Dominus
au Raa learned much in his banishment to the Kuiper Belt
after his…indiscretions. Not the least of which was the
impossibility of his task in subduing the Ascomanni there.
Octavia sent him to die, he soon realized. A fact I witnessed
ﬁrsthand. I remained behind as his factor, and saw her
appoint another Fear Knight in his absence—one Darrow
easily dispatched of. The second thing my master learned

was that the Ascomanni could not be conquered from
without, only from within. Ironic enough. So he left his
most cherished Gorgon amongst them, not to destroy them,
but to rise amongst them.”
Keep him talking, let Ozgard get Valdir. They may already
be en route to Seﬁ. Keep the little bastard’s mouth here,
where it can’t do any talking in Seﬁ’s ear.
“He Who Walks the Void was a Gorgon?” I ask.
“Is a Gorgon. The master called him the most talented of
that martial breed. Grimmus was good to loan him to us.”
The White’s lips make a thin line as it attempts a smile.
“You are a clever Homo bellicus, Mr. Horn, as I am an
eﬀicient Homo logicus. But do not compare yourself with
the best of the Homo aureate. My dominus’s designs are
painted on a horizon we will only see in time. My science is
logic, his is illogic—humanity.
“The Raa are in motion, you see. They come for the
Republic to repay old debts. But there is hubris in their
blood. Thinking themselves fresh to the tired fray, they will
ﬁnd themselves undone. With one stroke, my master fells
three.”
I check my six. No one is behind me. Yet Xenophon’s
bragging like the gun’s to my head. Maybe it is. Maybe all
I’ve felt, all I’ve seen, is part of this little game the White
and his master cooked up. Seﬁ, the skuggi, Valdir, Freihild,
Ozgard, are all just wriggling as the snake chokes the life
from us. I want to scream in frustration. I thought I was
being the hero. I’m just the fool in their game. But maybe I
can stop it. Tell Seﬁ. Find a way to unwind all this, and let
her dream continue on its course.
“Why did you come back?” Xenophon asks.
“Couldn’t stand to see a little shit ruin something good,”
I say. “Been there. Done that. World’s better oﬀ without the
likes of you and me.”

“I understand the conﬂict you feel.”
“Nah, you really don’t.”
Xenophon thinks for a moment. “You cannot stop this.
The reason I tell you all this is to disabuse you of that
delusion of grandeur. You are small, as am I. But you can be
a part of something, Mr. Horn. A part of the solution to this
dark age.” The White’s voice quickens. “When you ﬁrst
arrived, I thought you were a liability. And you were, thanks
to that meddling shaman. The conquest of Cimmeria was
meant to be a massacre led by Valdir. Millions of Reds were
to die. They were to ﬂock to the Red Hand, which was to
carve Volkland from the inside, and pit the Obsidians
against the people and each other. So that when Fá came, it
would be as savior. Instead, he must come as terror.”
“Let me guess, you needed the children on Luna, not
here. Poor Fear Knight. His Syndicate stooges didn’t get to
play with their toys.”
“They were upset. Baying for your blood—as those
cretins would. I could have killed you with a nerve agent in
your wine, in your food, as you slept at any time. But I
saved you. I convinced my master of your utility. You more
than any other jeopardized his plans. On accident, of
course. Still, he knows this. He respects this. He desires
you in Zero Legion.”
“Me? A Gorgon? Don’t make me laugh. This dog don’t
collar.”
“He does not wish to give you a collar. He oﬀers you
opportunity. The Obsidians never knew how to use your
skills. Never respected what you are: the greatest
inﬁltrator of an age. Yet you came here to save them. You
crave something that will be loyal to you, so you can be
loyal to it. Join us, and help us bring order back to
mankind. Is humanity better oﬀ than it was ten years ago?
The irrevocable answer is no. Become a shepherd. Become
a savior.”

“Humanity isn’t an it.”
Xenophon sighs. “You stall for time because you are
recording me, and think I don’t know about your prison
break.” I go cold. My ﬁnger grazes the trigger. “You mock
me, because I am diﬀerent. But I have always respected
you—I see the rigors of your training, the loss of your
husband, how you ﬂoat adrift and search for meaning.
These savages only respect you for what you have given
them—skillgift, the mines, amusement. Do you so easily
forget the violations they have reaped upon your race? How
they conspired to use Volga? They are monsters.”
“Seﬁ is not a monster,” I say. “She wants something
diﬀerent for her people. It ain’t a clean world, but she’s
trying to do right by them, by Mars. You, you greasy little
larva, are trying to rob that from them.”
“No. They will rob themselves. You will see. It is in their
nature. As duty is in ours.” Xenophon’s eyes ﬂick over my
head. “Nakata. Hold.”
I turn to see three lanky monsters, with crowns equal
parts metal, asteroid, and diamond fused to their skulls,
perched on a windowsill. Two more, barely taller than
children, with huge skulls, thick, long, apelike arms, and
stunted legs, swing through a second window.
Ascomanni. Not the rabid oﬀshoots of the Iceborn. But
aliens ﬁve hundred years separated from the human
genome and mutated by radiation. Their eyes are huge and
black as their hair, their foreheads pronounced like protohumans. Their noses little more than nostrils. They hold
weird, twisted weapons. Their skin, thick as hide and
ribbed with ritual scarring and metal implants, is the deep
red of a Bordeaux-fortiﬁed sangria.
“What. The. Fuck.”
“Mr. Horn, they will not attack you unless I command
them—” Xenophon steps back from me, ﬁngering

something concealed in a sleeve. My reaction is all instinct.
I snap the gun up and shoot the closest stubby one in the
face, then shoot at the largest of the three at the window. I
miss as they vault to the ceiling like gymnasts. I point the
gun at Xenophon. I can’t win this ﬁght. No matter how
much I want to shoot Xenophon in the head. The long play
is the only way.
Xenophon pulls a controller from his sleeve and twists a
dial.
That must be for the heartspike. I play along, spasming
and falling to my knees as if suﬀering a heart attack.
Xenophon spins the dial more, likely to render me
unconscious. I play dead. But, shittily, one of the Ascomanni
decides to kick me in the head for his dead friend and
everything goes dim.
—
I wake on stone amidst a distant roar of voices. A newly
carved stone griﬀin glares down at me from the ceiling
hundreds of meters overhead. I am in the private chamber
oﬀ Seﬁ’s newly appointed throne room, my hands bound
behind my back by magnetic cuﬀs. Still in my scarabSkin,
though stripped of all my gear. Ozgard blinks beside me.
Seﬁ stands above me. “Xenophon—” is all I manage, still
woozy from the blow to the head.
“Why?” she asks, her face cold to me. “I welcomed you
when the world wanted you dead. I gave you aeta. Why try
to install Valdir in a coup?”
“I—didn’t.” Speaking is like trying to form castles out of
dry sand. I want to tell her I respect her. That I came back
to help. That I may not be aeta, but I believe in her. In what
she stands for. But all that trickles out is: “Volsung Fá…the
Fear Knight…”
Come on brain, work!

“His master,” Xenophon says from her side, concealed
hands twisting the dial on my heartspike. I try to fake a
spasm, but I feel like I’m going to puke from the concussion
anyway. “After delivering the children to the Fear Knight,
his orders were to create chaos. I warned you about him.”
“Yes. You did, Xenophon. You did.” She looks on me in
sorrow and then spits in my face. “We are not monsters,
Mr. Horn. But our mercy is not inﬁnite. Skin him and the
fraud and hang them from the tower.”
“Ascomanni…” I grunt.
“If I may suggest he witness your speech, so as he hangs,
he can know the unity of Obsidians in the face of his
schemes?”
“Very well,” she says and walks oﬀ.
—
I am dragged by my hair with a bloody Ozgard into
Griﬀinhold.
Morning sunlight ﬁlters through high windows. Nearly
six hundred warjarls, all the chieftains of the tribes Seﬁ
united into one, cluster before the giant Ice Throne. I’ve
never seen them fully assembled, and until now did not
realize how even Valdir showed signs of the encroachment
of modernity. More than half of the leaders are stark
savages. They wear bones in their hair and hilarious
ostentatious signs of wealth pillaged from planets—gold
chains, ruby-hilted axes, breastplates studded with
diamonds. They have tattooed faces, fur cloaks, trophies of
war brought out from the pristine conﬁnes of their bounty
chests to ﬂash their tail feathers to the other warjarls. Most
are women, though a minority of taller men knot together.
Alone, the six hundred ﬁll barely a fraction of the
cavernous chamber.

Two thick columns of Obsidian honor guard, mostly highranking men from the tribes, stretch all the way to the
Bellona Doors. There must be thousands. Silence falls on
the jarls as Seﬁ stalks up to her throne where two dozen of
Seﬁ’s Valkyrie women form wings to either side. I’m tossed
with Ozgard on the ﬂoor at the far wing of the dais.
“Ozgard…” I mutter, managing to crawl to my knees.
He’s ﬂat on the ﬂoor, his broken hands bound behind him.
His lone eye blinks at me. “Oldboy, the skuggi…”
“Dead…most. They were waiting for us as we left. Valdir
broke through…”
“Escaped?”
“I know not…” His mouth twists in despair. “I know
nothing.” His eye turns to Seﬁ, who stands before her
throne. I reach for my right heel with my hand and ﬁnd the
sealant there intact. I still have my last play.
“They’re here,” I murmur. “The Ascomanni.”
A Valkyrie hits my ear to silence me.
“Your hearts beat for war,” Seﬁ bellows to her chieftains
in Nagal. The acoustics of the room work in her favor. The
jarls pound their axe hafts on the ground. “War is what you
desire. But against who? The Republic? The Golds? This
Volsung Fá? Ourselves?
“Are we savages who bay for war like dogs?” She glares
at them. “Ragnar did not die for war. He died for the future
of the Volk! Many of you cannot see past your axes. War is
our blood, yes. But no people can war against all. You know
of the treason that bathed these halls last night in blood.
My own mate, whose name is forgotten to us, thought I was
too weak to face our enemies. Behold his conspirators…” At
her order, the Valkyrie drag the skinned bodies of the
skuggi and throw them down the stairs of the dais to splay
like grisly, giant fetuses. I choke down vomit. I can’t even
recognize any of them. First Freihild, now everyone else.

Here I am again. The teacher of corpses. I never should
have left you, Volga. I never should have left.
“Am I weak?” Seﬁ whispers. I see the hatred in her eyes
for herself, for caving in the end to the cruel ways of her
people. So much for progress. So much for the future. The
jarls eat up the violence. They slam their axes and laugh. I
work my hand on the heel, trying to break the sealant.
“This Volsung Fá, this barbarian king, put fear into
Valdir’s heart. But not mine! I know what he is. A vulture.
He came to our land thinking it his. But he is no more one
of us than we are Gold. This land belongs to the Volk! We
purchased it with our blood! While he lurked in the
asteroids beyond the Rim, we broke the might of Gold, the
machines of Silver! Now he comes a thief in the night, to
murder Freihild, may she feast in Valhalla, to claim with
heretical tongue there is no Allmother, only an Allfather.”
She spits the word, and the jarls stomp their axes in fury.
“He is our enemy. A heretic! I will drink from his skull
before the moons grow full.”
They roar.
“All know the wisdom of Baldur. It is not wise to ﬁght an
enemy with another at your back. This heretic king has
poisoned the blood between our Republic brothers and
sisters. Today we cleanse that blood; tomorrow, we turn our
axes on him.”
She lifts the razor of Aja and points it to the Bellona
Doors, sparing a nod for Xenophon, who must have
arranged this. I know in my belly what’s coming. Xenophon
stares at the doors with intense contentment.
They say the Hall of Eagles wasn’t built to reach the
heavens, but to ﬁt its doors. The famed Bellona Doors, the
last great treasure of House Bellona not sold oﬀ by looters
or sculpted by the Obsidians in their own image, begin to
open. Formed from the trunks of two of the tallest godtrees
ever grown, the interlocking wooden wings that close oﬀ

the eastern façade of the hall are pulled open by infernal
machines. Raw rusted iron clatters and rattles now, as it
used to for the damn Bellona family so that they could sit in
their pretty armor and remember the horrors of war. As if it
wasn’t the deﬁnition of their own name.
The chanting of the crowd gathered in the city to protest
the Alltribe’s looming war with the Republic ﬂows in. They
chant for their Reaper. How far away he must seem.
On the ﬂoor, a long needle of daylight splits the Obsidian
jarls and stabs toward Seﬁ’s throne, dividing the shadows
of the room before widening to melt the shadows away. All
except one. As the Republic diplomatic shuttle taxis for
landing, it casts a stain on the ﬂoor the shape of a bird.
“The raven shadow,” Ozgard murmurs.
I’ve seen men snap during bombardments. It’s like a
physical switch has been thrown, and they go manic as an
addict. Ozgard’s switch goes. He bolts to his feet. Rushes
for Seﬁ, frothing for her to shoot down the ship. To not let
it spew out its evil. He is knocked windless on the ground
before he can even make it four steps. The sealant on my
heel won’t come oﬀ. Dammit.
Blood leaks out Ozgard’s mouth and pools on the ﬂoor
like cherry syrup as he’s dragged back to me. He stares at
his reﬂection. I whisper his name. He’s straight gone.
Snapped at the mental waist. He doesn’t even look up as
the ramp of the Republic shuttle bangs down at the far end
of the room.
I wait for a bomb to go oﬀ in the shuttle. For some
horrible weapon to evaporate the gathered host of
Obsidians. But the Fear Knight has something more
intricate in store.
His slave, Xenophon, walks from the place of honor at
Seﬁ’s side down the stairs of her throne dais, nearly to the
end of the ranks of Obsidian warjarls.

“Seﬁ Volarus, are you a god?” Xenophon asks. Her brows
knit together in confusion. “Are you a god?” Seﬁ’s taken
aback by the impertinence of her only “loyal” servant.
Her voice comes out in an annoyed growl. “Xenophon,
return to your place.”
“No.”
The jarls murmur in discontent. Seﬁ stands. “Servant,
obey.”
“I obey only one, and you are not him,” Xenophon replies.
The Valkyrie bodyguards take a predatory step forward.
Even Seﬁ’s competitors amongst the warjarls seem on the
verge of breaking the uppity White’s neck. Faced with
something she doesn’t understand, Seﬁ reverts to what she
knows.
“The blood of Ragnar Volarus runs through these veins,”
she says to the question. “Kneel on your knees, or on
stumps. I care not.”
“The blood of Ragnar Volarus,” Xenophon crows. “The
blood of a god. Alia was no god. She let the Children of the
Spires languish in chains. She sold her sons to the stars for
her own gain. From what wellspring then does Ragnar
derive his divinity? If not from his mother, then it must be
from his father.”
The room goes still in baﬄement. Xenophon raises that
crystal-clear voice and suddenly lurches, as if possessed by
an evil spirit like a shaman, to sing in ﬂawless Nagal.

“There was one mightier ’fore Allmother’s reign
Allfather, King of Stains, was his name.
For him, Old Kuthul rose against Sunborn
Till in Ladon was he felled, for kin to mourn
To the ﬁres his people and the Volk were sent
But not all to ash and bone must we lament

From sun to dust did the moons and dragons
chase
The brood of Kuthul, who hid in darkest space,
Five ages passed of shadow and ice
Entombed in ﬂoating caverns, hunted like rabid
mice
Blossoms of blood and thrones of ﬂesh were
grown
As brother ate brother; sister ate sister
for a savior, Allfather groaned
Then came the Outlander to answer his plea
Mighty were the Lords of Ink, mightier was He.
Whores of their children, shards of their thrones
Made He, who crowned Himself with their bones
And fashioned Dark Wind of those not destroyed
To serve, to anoint, to proclaim:
He Who Walks the Void.
“May I present to the Volk of the heatlands: the Breaker
of the Black Thrones of Ultima Thule, Master of the
Fleshchain, Bonemaker of Charon, Overlord of the Kuiper
Belt and Oort Cloud, Terror of Codovan and Raa, Taker of
Makemake, Haumea, Xena, Eris. Volsung Great Fá of the
Ascomanni, Emperor of the Obsidian, and Broodfather of
Ragnar Volarus!”
Silence.
And then He comes.

***EphraimThe first sound is three thousand Obsidian honor guards

raising their ceremonial axes and taking the ﬁghting stance
to a warcry. The warjarls turn to see the threat. Behind
their turned heads, Seﬁ looks no taller, no stronger, no
more conﬁdent than a ﬁve-year-old child. Horror, hope,
fear, and confusion all muddle together in a grotesque
expression, then vanish, leaving only the icy, intelligent
mask of Seﬁ the Quiet.
I just don’t think Seﬁ the Quiet will be enough.
The second sound is metal on stone. Two armored boots
stomp down the corridor. Even from the side of the dais, I
can see his huge helmet over the tallest guards. It is made
of the skull of some exotic beast, triple-horned, fused with
asteroid metal, and sparkling with diamonds, rubies, and
emeralds.
The third sound is the scraping of a long metal chain that
he drags in one hand. Dozens of abnormally large skulls
hang from the metal—Ascomanni kings. In the other he

hefts a bizarre spear-saw over his shoulder. Two dozen
male jarls of the Alltribe follow him out of the shuttle,
instead of the true face of the beastly horde he leads.
The fourth sound is an ululation from his metal throat,
like the wail tin makes when it warps in windstorms. The
song carries him to the end of the guard corridor, where a
wall of Valkyrie bodyguards stand at the base of Seﬁ’s dais.
Whoever this man is, he could not be the father of
Ragnar. It’s a lie. A Fear Knight trick. Kill him. Slag
tradition. Slag what the warjarls think. “Ozgard. Ozgard, I
need your help,” I whisper. He stares at Volsung in terror.
“Ozgard, my heel. I need your hand.” Even the rootlike
ﬁngers of his right hand hold more strength than do mine.
He does not listen. “Ozgard!”
Volsung’s entourage stops well shy of the throne, but
Volsung carries on until Valkyrie block his way. He points
his spear at Seﬁ’s throne. “Mine.” He points at her crown.
“Mine.” He points at the Obsidian jarls. “Mine.” He waves
his spear around to encompass Mars. “Mine.”
His spear’s spiked haft stomps into the stone, breaking
Seﬁ from her trance. She signals her Valkyrie to take him.
He rattles the long chain behind him like a snake.
“My father, Vagnar, is dead,” she says. “Cut oﬀ this
imposter’s hands and feet, save his liver for the buzzards
and his cock for the dogs.” I cheer inside as three women
slip forward in a V to do the dirty work with their axes.
Volsung moves like a whip.
His spear separates. Its tip lurches forward and pierces
through the face of the leftmost woman, coming out the
back of her skull. Still connected to the haft by some sort of
metal wire. Volsung leaves it in, and brings the back threequarters of the spear around to smash into the axe-guard of
the rightmost woman. Something in her shoulder breaks
and she’s almost lifted oﬀ her feet as she stumbles into the

woman in the middle. Bellowing like a maniac, Volsung
overwhelms them with savagery. Small teeth on the spear’s
length begin to saw, and he brings the huge spear down
like a hammer in colossal overhand strikes, beating them to
their knees, sawing through their armor, and then staving
in their skulls in a traumatic display of brute strength. In
ten seconds, the three women make a meat salad on the
ﬂoor.
Oh, fuck.
The whole Valkyrie bodyguard raises their riﬂes to ﬁre on
the man.
More than sixty of Seﬁ’s warjarls, all men, step forward
and make a human wall around Volsung. An ominous
silence grips the room as all realize this was planned.
Volsung is no stranger to these male chieftains.
He must have come to them in secret. When? Before
Mars? When they landed? When Valdir, their idol, was
arrested? Still, they pretend, and shout for him to prove his
identity.
“I have lived three lives,” Volsung rumbles through
that titanic helmet. “The last is that of Volsung Fá. The
second that of Pale Horse, slaveknight to the Warlord
of Ash. The ﬁrst that of Vagnar Hefga, ﬁrst broodmate
to Alia Volarus, the Snowsparrow, Queen of the
Valkyrie, broodfather to the god Ragnar Volarus and
greedy little Seﬁ.”
He removes his helmet. A long tail of hair tumbles from
his shaved skull, falling all the way to his heels. The male
warjarls thrust up their chins and bare their throats in
submission, proclaiming him Ragnar’s father. The others
stare at the length of his valor tail. Even Unshorn is a boy
to this man.
Volsung looks to Seﬁ, black eyes glittering from eyeholes
of the tattooed skull of a Stained.

“Have I so changed beyond the sun, child? Or are
you now just a liar like your mother?” He tosses his
helmet to the ﬂoor. It makes a seismic thump. “Look upon
this face, and say you know it not.”
Seﬁ is shocked dumb.
The father of Ragnar would be over eighty. Yet this man
covered with the blood spatter of her Valkyrie looks barely
ﬁfty, and moves smooth as any gladiator of the Hyperion
Premiere Circuit. In the light, he is more than the pale
nightmare I saw in the darkness of the ice. His throat must
have been ripped out years ago. The front third is metal,
the trachea ribbed gray. His arms are bare and obscenely
muscular. The left forearm is metal with a metal hand and
dagger-sharp ﬁngernails that look like they extend on
sliders. A horrible scar claims half his nose. Blue worm
veins of age rejuvenation therapy web the sides of his skull
—the ﬁrst I’ve ever seen on an Obsidian. Even Julii would
ﬂinch at the cost.
“My father is dead,” Seﬁ repeats like a mantra.
Volsung reaches under his vest to produce a broken
amulet of a griﬀin.
“You will remember this, if not the man who taught
you to hunt.” He throws it at her. “Your mother broke it
in half the day I was taken back to the stars. To be
whole again when I returned. Fifty years it took. Fifty
years to hear there was no sky burial for the mother
of my pride, Alia. No high mountain tomb for her
bones amongst ancient kin. Only a lonely cairn of
shattered stone, with half of me lost beneath it.”
“You desecrated our Sky Temple. You slew Freihild. You
spit on the Allmother? You attacked the Republic?” Seﬁ
says, her rage playing tug-of-war with her confusion.
“Why?”

“To free you from your chains,” he says. “Alia was
desecrated. Why? Because in your hearts you hold the
truth. What good is a mother who sells her children?
What good is a mother who harvests her young? What
good is a mother who is a liar? No better than the
frothing rot of a dead seal.”
His voice is clever and evocative, and he mutates its tone
like an amused mummer. He’s no barbarian browbeating
them with strength. He’s trained in elocution. Far better
trained than I managed to make the skuggi. I recognize the
triple-beat pivot of the Palatine’s politico school. This is the
Fear Knight’s asset, his super weapon.
“Under the Allmother, we were slaves, brothers…”
He smiles. “…sisters. Under the rule of women, our
men were sent to the stars to die, while queens sat on
thrones and knew the joy of the hunt on the ice.” He
wheels around, speaking to the honor guard as much as the
female-dominated jarls. “We died in Sunborn wars, in
their fencing practices, ridden down by horseback or
gravBoot for sport. In their gambling pits we were
forced to kill our brothers, but never our sisters.” He
thrusts his huge hands into the air. “These hands have
slain seas.” He looks down. “Seas of brothers. Seas of
kin.”
Seﬁ has lost control. Volsung conducts like a master.
He slowly opens his vest to reveal a body of muscles and
scars and metal plates. A thick pattern of identical scars on
his back and chest stand out from the rest. Their shape is
unmistakably the slave brand of House Grimmus. “This
ﬂesh has known slavery.” He points a ﬁnger at Seﬁ.
“What do you know, girl?” He smiles. “Only how to be
quiet, it seems.”
It isn’t only the male jarls who laugh. While the Valkyrie
stare in horror, the more numerous honor guard is
intrigued. And why not? What he says is true. Most of the

men were in the Gold legions. Most of them were slaves.
Seﬁ was not. What would she know of their horror?
Even I note how small she looks. How timid her ﬁerce
veteran Valkyrie are to this lone terror. Yet she draws
conﬁdence from the movement of the women jarls.
Alienated by this man, they drift to make a thick wall of
protection for the Queen, each representing thousands of
braves in the camps around Cimmeria. Yet Seﬁ is blind. She
does not see how the words seep into the ears of the three
thousand honor guard. How the men in the room looked at
the skinned skuggi—all of which were conveniently male
and castrated—or how Valdir, champion of the male braves,
is now branded traitor.
It was never about old ways and new. It was always about
gender.
How could she be so fucking blind? How could I not see
it festering?
Volsung bares his mangled teeth.
“While you were silent, girl, I was a slave. While you
struck down your unarmed mother, I conquered the
tribes of the Far Ink.” He waves a hand back to the skulls
on the chain. “These were their kings. While you let
the heatlanders infect you with weakness, I slew with
my warsaw those who would not bow. I made cups of
their skulls, slaves of their children, and whores of
their wives.”
He brandishes his spear. The way it glimmers…it must be
made of a metal I’ve never seen.
“All I have, I have taken from the deathgrip of my
foes. All you have, you have stolen. From the head of a
murdered mother, from the pockets of your noble ally,
Tyr Morga”—he taps his forehead in respect—“from the
legacy of your god brother, from the strength of your
mate.

“You cannot even kill a drake without your servants.
Without others, you are nothing. Just a cow who
bleats she is Queen.” He addresses the Obsidians.
“Obsidian follows strength. I see strength here. With
weakness held up by her crown. I issued your queen a
challenge. But she hid from me behind you. Brothers,
sisters! Look upon her! Your queen is an ass, for she
leads from the back!” The image of Seﬁ behind the wall
of Obsidian jarls now becomes an indictment, a mockery. Fá
laughs and speaks directly to the honor guard behind him.
“She would have you give up war. She would have you
forsake the Wind for roofs. Your stone and bone
heritage for the soft silk of heatlanders. She would let
their cities suck you dry. She would have you live in
their world. I would have them live in ours.
“From the diamond mines of Quaor, to the
Boneyard of Charon, to the Black Thrones of Ultima
Thule, the Dark Wind of the Allfather gathers to fall
on the heatlands to claim all for Volkland. Gold had
its time in the day. Red faltered but now we rise.” He
turns to Seﬁ. “But only one can rule. Moooooo.” He
walks back and forth mooing at her like a cow in mockery.
“Bardahgi! Bardahgi! Bardahgi!” the male warjarls begin
to chant. Fight. Fight. Fight. Many of the honor guard join
them. Ozgard weeps on the ﬂoor. I sag in exhaustion. Seﬁ
should shoot him. I would shoot him if I had a gun. But she
is a woman trapped by the ways of her own people. If she
shoots Ragnar’s father, the Alltribe will shatter apart. If she
turns down a challenger with a claim, she is not strength,
and they will turn on her. If only Valdir were here, she must
be thinking. Valdir would wrangle the fools in line.
The Queen of the Obsidians looks at Xenophon in
betrayal. Then to me and Ozgard and taps her forehead in
respect and apology. She peels Aja’s razor from her arm,
draws her war axe, and steps down from her throne.

—
The Obsidians watch father and daughter strip themselves
of armor and circle one another barefoot in the center of
the hall. Volsung is bare-chested, though his muscles
themselves look like armor. He wields his warsaw with both
hands. Seﬁ wears a sleeveless vest of Valkyrie blue. In her
left hand spins the razor of Aja, and in her right a great
axe.
No more words are shared. They meet in a sudden ﬂurry
of violence that rattles my bones. Seﬁ bounds backward,
more agile than the huge man, but not by much. She hops
foot to foot, probing, sliding, and lashing forward. She is a
spirit of the ice, nearly Valdir’s match by the reckoning of
the dozens of Golds she’s sent to the Void.
But Volsung ignores the blades and recklessly thrusts at
her heart with his warsaw, forcing her to turn her attack
into a defense. He is old, and has maybe lost a step, but he
is cunning, and Seﬁ knows it. The recklessness was a trap
to lure her into baiting him, and Seﬁ barely twists her heart
out of the way as his blade scrapes along her rib cage.
She spins back, but smelling blood, Volsung comes on
like a bloody storm. Screaming at the top of his lungs, he
goes berserker, hammering at the razor and axe as if he
intends to chop them to splinters. He uppercuts with the
hooked piercing end of his warsaw. Seﬁ deﬂects with her
razor, lifts her left leg, and sidesteps to her right. He pivots
his spear, and brings the saw half crashing down. She
catches it with her axe. Veins bulge in his trunk of a neck.
Muscles twist in his core and he pushes down, down, down.
Seﬁ brings the razor around underneath from her left to
cut him in half. He pivots the bottom end of the spear
diagonal, blocks the razor outward. The metal of both
instruments warps as they rebound, hers outward, his
inward. He uses the momentum, driving with his legs as he

uppercuts with the piercing end toward her opposite leg,
ripping a canyon from her mid-calf, through the inside
tendons of her knee, all the way up her inner thigh to her
pelvis.
Seﬁ stumbles back, and in six compact thrusts, he
punctures both her ankles, her kneecaps, and both her
rotator cuﬀs. She falls like a slack puppet. Her axe and
razor clattering to the ground.
It took less than a minute.
Dead silence. I grow nauseous in it. I should have shot
Xenophon and died in that room. This can’t be happening.
Some of the female jarls bolt for the exits. The Valkyrie go
berserk. But they are outnumbered and slaughtered. As
pulseRiﬂes whine and axes rise and fall in the periphery,
Volsung watches his daughter crawl away from him toward
her axe, leaving smears of blood on the stone. He stalks
after her and stomps on the back of her head until she goes
still. He places the axe in her hand, and crouches with a
knee on her spine to say: “Valhalla bears only the brave.
Will you remain quiet in the end, my child?”
Volsung straddles his daughter, putting his weight on her
tailbone, and sets to grim work. With the knife from his
waist, he cuts open her vest to reveal Seﬁ’s tattooed back.
In a tender sawing motion, he carves oﬀ two long ﬂaps of
ﬂesh from the shoulder blades to the tailbone, exposing her
rib cage. She ﬂails like a punctured ﬁsh. Then with a small
axe from his hip, Volsung hacks at the ribs on either side of
her spine. She jerks in agony, but no sound escapes her. He
discards the hatchet and pries open her rib cage from
behind to expose her lungs. Tears leak from her eyes. She
gasps for air.
As peaceful as a man cleaning a ﬁsh, Volsung takes a
handful of salt from a pouch and throws it on the wounds.
Seﬁ spasms, the muscles of her limbs balling up in cramps.
Not one of her warjarls comes to her aid. They watch the

Valkyrie being slaughtered without drawing their axes. I
grow sick with hate for them, for the betrayal and horror in
Seﬁ’s eyes. When Volsung realizes she will not scream, he
nods with pride and kneels to dry the tears from her face.
“Valhalla will welcome you, child. Go to our Fallen
who feast, go to your brother in the Skyhall, you are
freed on Allfather’s wings.”
“Tyr Morga will eat your heart,” she rasps.
“Perhaps,” Volsung whispers. “My god is ﬁckle with
his favor.”
He reaches into her opened back with both hands, and
knowing the end is here, Seﬁ shouts with her last breath:
“Hyrg la Rag—” Her words turn to a gurgle as Volsung
tears out her lungs and hurls them on the ground. She
blinks at them. Her eyes drift closed, and only the tattooed
spirit eyes look on.
I shut my eyes and hear the crunch and hack of steel on
ﬂesh as Volsung continues his work. When I open them
again, he has taken her heart. He holds it above him to
show the warjarls. Blood sluices down his biceps into the
white hair of his armpits.
“Allfather!” he cries out. “Allfather! I oﬀer you these
stains!” It takes him two minutes to eat her heart. When
he is ﬁnished, he shudders in satiation. “Worthy.” Then he
grabs Seﬁ by the ankle, forming a red trail as he drags her
up the stairs to the Griﬀin Throne and takes his seat.
I seize the moment to crawl toward a fallen Valkyrie.
With the angle, I can’t free myself from the cuﬀs, but with
her blade I’m able to pry open the heel of my boot and palm
the heartspike Pax altered for me.
All kneel for their king except for Ozgard, who is allowed
to stumble toward the remains of Seﬁ. He looks at her and
ﬁnally screams. It’s more than a scream. It’s a soul dying.
He falls to his knees in horror at the sight of his Queen’s

ribs splayed out like bloody wings. Volsung tosses him the
knife he used on Seﬁ. It skitters across the ﬂoor to slide to
a stop in front of Ozgard. But he’s no longer Ozgard. Spit
drips down his lips. His remaining eye is glazed.
“A red griﬀin, wasn’t it, shaman? I have fulﬁlled
your prophecy. Fulﬁll mine.”
As if under a spell, the shaman picks up the blade, turns
it around, and buries it into his remaining eye. As what was
Ozgard weeps on the ground, Volsung takes the razor of
Aja into his hand.
“Seven hundred years of slavery. Seven hundred
years of war. Seven hundred years of anguish for
them.” Seated on Seﬁ’s throne, he closes his eyes and the
distant roar of the crowd, ignorant of the horror coming for
them, laps through the deﬁled building.
“Reaper. Reaper. Reaper,” they chant.
Fá opens his eyes. “Sack the city. Take their
treasures. Rape their men, their women, their
children. Remind them the Allfather’s truth: the
world is yours, if you can take it.”

***EphraimThe birds chirp. Early beams of sunlight warm the frosted

stone of the plaza at the top of the Bellona Stairs. The scent
of bonﬁres and crackling boar meat thickens the air. Two
thousand Ascomanni feast beside their king as the city
trembles with screams. I should be sitting across from
Volga watching her try to impress Pax. I should be with my
friends. With my aeta. Instead, I suﬀer the banquet of a
beast.
I have never been more disgusted with our bipedal
species.
Was Seﬁ all that held the monster inside at bay?
In the shadow of Griﬀinhold, airborne Obsidians rove in
packs, lighting ﬁres with phosphorus bombs, savaging
citizens who thought the roofs shelter from the marauding
hordes below. Not Ascomanni, but the very Obsidians who
drank and sang in the streets at Winter Solstice, who
shopped in the markets and waved at the Reds who rebuilt
their city.

I’ve seen genocide. I saw the Jackal’s bombs go oﬀ. The
ghost of the ﬂash stayed burned in my eyes for two years.
But this is not a ﬂash. It is…more human, and worse for it.
I understand us now. How easy it is to follow a pointing
ﬁnger.
“Have you thought about my oﬀer, Mr. Horn?” Xenophon
asks. The White watches the burning city with zero
connection. A line of slaves in chains ﬁve kilometers long
stretches toward the former Julii ﬂagship parked south of
the city. Will the Republic just watch the rape of Olympia?
“I have thought about your oﬀer. At the right price, it
could be interesting.”
The White doesn’t believe me as I watch the slaves load
into the starship. “Are you aware there is a species of bat
on Mercury that begins life as mammalian larva?”
I ignore the fool and turn away to look at Fá. The odious
shit reclines on his throne as braves from the city bring him
women one by one to add to his harem. Seﬁ had more
dignity in her little toenail.
Xenophon prattles on.
“In order for the larva to mature to its destined form, it
must ﬁnd a host to grow inside and then consume when it
is ready to ﬂy. Fá was a catalyst. But a rich, haughty city
fallen from grace was the necessary chrysalis for this
transformation of the Obsidians to their former selves.
Where else could a tribal people be nurtured with such
discontent? Olympia had every opportunity to spare itself
this fate. But without a shepherd, mankind cannot help but
succumb to its own greed.”
The White surveys my face.
“You are in pain. How could you of all people look down
and wonder how they can do this to a city they uplifted?
Fear made Olympia polite, Mr. Horn. But when they
realized there was nothing to fear due to Seﬁ’s manners,

they partook in incremental predation on the Obsidians. A
Hyperionin should know: a city is a thief. Designed in every
facet to part coin from purse. The only diﬀerence is it
smiles when it does it. Did Olympians thank the Obsidians
for ten years of frontline horror? For their generosity in
pouring capital into the rebuilding of their city? No. No,
they gouged them in shops, cheated them in casinos,
mocked their race, and then, after all that, turned on them
in an instant and chose the Republic that could not even
put food in their mouths, and a hero who abandoned them
for the Core. What greater insult is there? The question is
not, how could they do this? It is, why did they not do it
sooner?”
“Because Seﬁ was a decent woman.”
“No, she was remarkable, as are you. But she was
crushed under the guilt of being seen as the voice of the
man she admired, when really she barely knew him much
at all. She let her past overrule her nature. As do you.
Why?” I ignore the White until those pale hands grab my
scarabSkin. “Why?”
“Because we’re something you’ll never be, shithead:
human.” The reply breaks something inside the White.
Xenophon turns away, wounded. I activate the power
switch Pax put in the heartspike. “I want to speak to Fá.”
“Why?”
“That, dear asshole, is between me and the ogre.”
“Very well.” Taking his heart controller in hand,
Xenophon brushes past me. I turn at the last second and
release the heartspike into his pocket. He leads me past
Fá’s guards. We wait for the man to ﬁnish picking a Pink for
his harem. He waves us forward in amusement as the
terriﬁed girl is dragged away.
“Salve, Xenophon,” he says with a smile. “I see my
heir’s guardian returned.” He notices the cuﬀs. “Not as

friend, it seems. Still. He protected her from the
savagery of the heatlands. It is no good for him to be
on a leash.” He motions for his men to remove the cuﬀs.
“He is a substantially dangerous man,” Xenophon warns.
“Despite his size.”
Volsung considers me. “So I have heard.” His men
unshackle me.
“Cheers, oldboy,” I say to Fá with a wide smile. I rub my
raw wrists and eye the weapons on the Ascomanni. I
wouldn’t make it halfway through a lunge. There is no
other way. It is not a great decision, not the sum of my life,
as I thought of Trigg’s death. It is a small choice to simply
say: Fuck you.
“Is my heir alive?”
I frown. “Didn’t you kill her?”
“I had no chance to mold Seﬁ. She is not my
daughter. When you have so many, they matter very
little. Ragnar was my ﬁrst. I taught him to hunt
before I was taken back to the stars. Volga will be my
second. She will be like clay. I will make her in my
image, so that when the time comes, she will inherit
the worlds.”
“Pity she sunk to the bottom of the sea then,” I reply.
“Sloppy work, that. Should have hired me. I’m the tits,
didn’t you hear?”
“Bottom of the sea, you say?” He comes down from
his throne and sniﬀs me like a dog. “Then you must be a
nøkken. For I smell her upon you.” He runs a nail along
the scarabSkin, leaving ﬂakes of Seﬁ’s blood. “She
dressed you in this very armor.” His whiskers scratch
my chin. “She kissed you upon the cheek.” He draws
back and looks at Xenophon, lowering his voice. “Does our
master still wish to tame this dog?”

“He would prove an asset. But his nature makes it
decidedly unlikely, regardless the collar. The master trusts
my discretion.”
His nature. I chuckle. Validation after all.
“He is not worthy for me. Xenophon, kill him
without marks. We will make it look as if his heart
gave in to his depredations. When Volga comes for
him, she will weep, but not hate.” He cups his hand.
“And she will be like clay.” He gives me a mocking smile.
“Thank you for your service, Gray.”
He climbs back on his throne to continue ﬁlling his
harem as Xenophon readies the controller for my heart.
Fá’s beasts grip my shoulders to drag me away. “Well,
aren’t you a cockless little yeti,” I say to Fá. His big head
turns toward me. “At least have the testicular fortitude to
look me in the eye as I die.”
Volsung grants me that honor. His men back away as
Xenophon thumbs the control and activates the kill switch.
I glance over at the White. Xenophon frowns when I don’t
fall to the ground from heart failure. “Hey, milky. You like
riddles. What do you call a piece of shit with a bomb in his
pocket?” I unzip the front of my scarabSkin to show the
scar Electra left. “Oops.”
Xenophon frowns and looks down a sleeve. “Oh…”
Xenophon disintegrates as the signal to the heartspike in
his pocket activates the explosives Pax wrapped around it.
The heat hits me before the roar.
The world turns over as I’m thrown like a rag doll.
I can hear nothing. My whole body is cold. My right eye
sees washed-out images. My left eye nothing. Half-melted
men stumble around me, screaming soundlessly. Smoke
twirls up into the blue sky. My spine is broken. My legs do
not work. My right arm gone. I am cold but afraid. But not
as afraid as the ﬁrst day at the ludus.

The most afraid I have been in all my life was seeing
those cold halls and colder boys and lying down to bunk. I
don’t have to go back there ever again. I feel the metal of
Trigg’s ring on my ﬁnger. The warmth of warm water. The
sound of it lapping against a raft. Soon it will be the starry
sky. And we will lie beside each other forever. Fá is dead.
Volga is safe. Good luck, Snowball.
I stare up at the sun and wait for it to darken.
Then a shadow eclipses it.
No.
No.
No.
Half the monster’s face is melted to the bone, baring his
bottom teeth. His nose is gone. The iron crown melted to
ruin and steaming, fused with his hairless skull. He looks
into my eyes, and I see the abyss in his as he laughs at the
pain. I moan something in fear. There’s a lurch. A sudden
pressure in my chest. He pulls away, his hand holding
something red as he mouths a word dead to my ears.
“Worthy.”
Then he takes a bite of my heart.

The world is a maze without a center.
Become it, or be forever lost.
—SILENIUS AU LUNE,
SILENIUS’S MEDITATIONS, 25 PCE

***LysanderIt is time.

After days of waiting for others to enact my will, the hour
fast approaches for my own ﬂesh to enter the fray. Glirastes
has informed me that Darrow’s departure is imminent, as is
Atalantia’s attack. Somewhere out beyond the mountains,
her bombers fuel to deliver their payloads.
It is now or doomsday.
“The dinner is prepared, dominus,” Exeter says to me as
I close the book of Shelley’s poems and rise from the
orchard bench. It is late afternoon and the songbirds have
begun to croon for night. Rising guards patrol the fringes
of the estate, looking at the sky, not knowing that the
attack will come from within.
I smile at a mismatched pair of guards as I fall in step
with Exeter along the gravel path back to the house’s
southern portico. The pale man gives no sign of his week’s
labor. He has been busy on my behalf.

While it would have been easier to negotiate the
compliance of Glirastes’s wary loyalists in person instead of
through a proxy, it would have exposed us to dangerous
levels of scrutiny. I dare not tempt fate by playing more
games than necessary with Darrow.
Soon, I’ll be rid of the spike. Until then, the perfect
libertine I have remained.
The dining table is set for two. Glirastes and I make idle
banter of the predictable sort, but it is peculiar seeing him
smiling across from me when inside I know he is churning
with fear and doubt.
Neither my friend nor I have much appetite. So it is a
relief when the servants take away the barely touched
remains of our dinner. Glirastes stands. “I must return to
the spaceport. Be a good boy and see me oﬀ.”
At the boarding stairs to his shuttle, I smile at the old
man. “You know what they say about you?” I ask.
“My boy, you should know I haven’t the faintest care.”
“You found Heliopolis a city for men, and made it a city
for gods.”
He snorts. “If there are gods, they are in brighter worlds
than these.”
He has little appetite for banter. He knows the dangers of
the path I have chosen to walk, and he doubts me because
the old do not remember the necessities of youth. They see
only the years on our horizon to which they think we are
entitled. But we are entitled only to the moment, and owe
nothing to the future except that we follow our convictions.
I am ﬁnally following mine.
The desert taught me that the only path is forward.
“I left you a gift in your room,” Glirastes says.
“Something for the occasion.” He lingers on the shuttle
steps, unwilling to say farewell.

He nods, sets a hand on my shoulder, contemplates a
parting word, and then enters the shuttle.
Night comes not soon enough.
At seven o’clock, Exeter’s ship takes him down to the
city, along with most of the servants, who are concealed in
the cargo hold for their rendezvous with our loyalists. A
skeleton crew remains behind. The guards are none the
wiser. They watch me.
At eight o’clock, the clone program Glirastes’s loyalist
Greens cooked up hijacks the feed from my security spike
and transmits falsiﬁed data back to them, showing that I
am in the library reading. I cut it out of my shoulder with a
small knife from the dresser.
Then I sit on the edge of the bed and take the card oﬀ the
smoked-glass box that Glirastes left for me. The note is
simple: This summons legions.
Inside the box is a silver horn inlaid with gods and
goddesses and racing chariots with wild steeds pulling the
sun. The Horn of Helios, which has begun every race in the
Hippodrome since it was built. It is a priceless relic. I set it
on the bed as I open a second, far larger container that
conceals the gravBoots, razor, and military hardware
provided by the loyalists. I’m about to slip the gravBoots on
when a knock comes at the door. I frown as a servant’s
voice comes through the oak.
“You have a visitor, my liege.”
I open the door. “A visitor? What the devil do you mean?”
“Alexandar au Arcos and his maidservant are in the
atrium demanding to see you, dominus.”
Alexandar? The timing could not be worse. I don’t have
time to wag jaws at the crown prince of the Free Legions as
he thanks me for his deliverance.
“Tell him I am indisposed.”

“He knows you are on house arrest. He can see you’re in
the library, dominus.” He looks at the equipment laid out on
the bed. “He will be suspicious if I send him away.”
That suspicion will lead to a cascade of consequences
that may upturn the entire venture. I am supposed to be at
the Hippodrome in ten minutes. With Glirastes in motion,
there is no secure way to alter the timetable.
Dammit.
“Admit him into the library in two minutes. Tell him I am
ﬁnishing a chapter.” I shut the door. There’s absolutely
nothing to be done about the spike. I have no way of
contacting the Greens.
I hide the loyalist razor in my boot and race to the
library.
I’m sweating by the time the door to the library bursts
open, and Alexandar waltzes in as if he owns the place.
Behind him trails the child soldier Rhonna. Darrow’s niece
gapes at all the books. I ﬁnd her particularly oﬀensive
today. She wears her arms bare to show oﬀ the unnatural
bolts that permit lowColors to parody the Blue mind-sync
with their vehicles. This condition, compounded by her
Color’s adverse disposition to disciplined warfare, creates
anarchy in a single individual. A sort of dissociative mania,
which I can see behind her eyes.
A zealot, this one. I must tread carefully.
“This is where they keep the renegade libertines, in the
library?” Alexandar asks, running his tongue along his new
teeth. “I hope it was an interesting chapter to keep us
waiting, you tart.”
He greets me like a brother, wrapping me in a hug and
slapping my back in a sort of thuggish display of
camaraderie.
“You may have heard,” he goes on. “Departure is
imminent, and I told Rhonna it would be a crime against

culture to depart without a tour of the Lady Beatrice. It will
likely be months before we’re back again.” Even the
thought of the Rising returning to claim Mercury sets my
blood to a boil.
“What a splendid idea,” I say before making an
apologetic face. “But I fear I am rather indisposed at the
moment.”
“Told you we should have called ahead,” Rhonna says.
She smiles apologetically at me. “Sorry, lad, entitlement is
one habit the man can’t break.”
“A book is hardly as interesting company as are we!”
Alexandar says. He grins with his new teeth. “Fear not,
goodman. I know better than to insult local customs. I
brought a bribe.” He tosses me a bottle and winks. “I hear
Erebians simply adore Venusian brandy.”

***DarrowFear stares at me through the glass. It does not seem as

if he has moved since I resisted cutting oﬀ his hands.
“Hasn’t talked a lick, despite the cocktails,” Screwface says
from beside me.
“Neurological conditioning?” I ask.
“If it is, it ain’t like any I’ve ever seen.”
Atlas’s side of the wall is blank, but I feel his eyes on me.
I move left, and they follow. “He can sense us.”
Screwface believes it. “I noticed that too. Should we up
the dosage?”
“No.”
“Darrow, we need to know when Atalantia will attack.”
“She’s in no hurry,” I say. “But if we kill him before we
get him to my wife—” I stop as I realize what I’m doing. It’s
always easier to plan on hope. “If she’s alive, she can crack
him. When we get what’s in there, we’ll have a chance. Till
then, let’s not push our luck by melting his cerebellum.”

We’re about to leave the cell behind when Atlas speaks.

“Pedicabere, fur, semel; sed idem si deprensus
eris bis, irrumabo.
quod si tertia furta molieris, ut poenam patiare et
hanc et illam, pedicaberis irrumaberisque.”
“What does it mean?” Screwface asks.
“Fear is on the job.”
“Come on. My family was full of Pixies. Didn’t ever
bother with Latin.”
I sigh, and translate:
“Thief, for ﬁrst thieving shalt be swived, but an
Again arrested shalt be irrumate;
And, shouldst attempt to plunder time the third,
This and that penalty thou shalt endure,
Being both pedicate and irrumate.”
“I am going to kill that man,” Screw says quietly.
“Get in line.”
Back in the Mound, the ﬁnal preparations for departure
are under way. Despite Screwface’s eﬀective eﬀorts against
Atalantia’s spy rings, it is best to assume she still has
agents within the city. Tomorrow’s evacuation to the ships
will come as a surprise to all but those within my inner
circle. Until then, my army plays the part of occupying
force. Patrols continue. Garages rattle with industry.
Barracks swell with music and snoring and gambling.
Yet something feels wrong. The Fear Knight’s poem has
haunted me.
Did I miss something?
To allay my concerns, I took a tour of the mountain
fortiﬁcations for signs of Atalantia’s forward elements after

visiting Atlas. All was still. Too still. Thraxa and Harnassus
think my ill-ease to be general paranoia. Glirastes’s work is
completed. The Morning Star and the remaining ships are
repaired for combat. Morale is high. My conﬁdants dwell
on the coming fray, and debate our chances of slipping the
noose. But in my quarters inside the Mound, my mind roves
restlessly as I inspect datapackets from Atlas’s
interrogation, surveillance of known loyalists, and
Glirastes’s charge, Cato.
The ﬁve-minute gap from his detour to the wine cellar is
explainable yet cloying. In secret, my men bugged the
cellar after that surveillance failure, and faulted it on
interference from the Lady Beatrice’s reactor. Harnassus
himself has vouched for the integrity of Glirastes’s EMP. So
why do I linger over this insubstantial creature’s idle days?
Is it simply the seeds of Fear?
He has done nothing suspicious, not even left the Lady
Beatrice, yet something is oﬀ about Cato au Vitruvius’s
nature, if not his actions. Perhaps it is latent sociopathic
tendencies that set the hairs on my back standing on end. I
watch him sit in the library reading his book, and shift back
through the moments where my Greens ﬂagged peculiar
activity. Much is class-based misunderstanding. They divine
malign intent from his reading selections and his
ambivalence toward the names of the servants. False
positives perfectly in keeping with his nature.
I should let it alone and not squander my time, but I ﬁnd
myself idiosyncratically ﬂipping through his hours,
unwilling to get out of my chair. I watch him walk the
garden, laugh at old vids, converse with the guards, sketch
idly the shadows of a lone ﬂower, eat breakfast, yawn over
evening drinks with Glirastes, retire to bed at a drunkard’s
hour.
A knock comes at the door. I let the video continue
playing and answer.

Thraxa stands there with her hands behind her back.
“Did you eat dinner? Ration bars don’t count.” She
produces two ﬁsh pies.
“Come on in.”
She tosses them on the table and looks around for plates.
“We’re both just going to eat them all anyway,” I say. She
shrugs and plops down in a chair, digging into hers with a
utility knife. She waves the knife at the holo.
“That’s a little creepy. Watching the Pixie sleep. If you’re
so fond of him, you should have gone with the kids.”
“The kids?”
“Alexandar and Rhonna went up to the Beatrice not long
ago.”
“Why?”
“Something about a gift.” That troubles me. I wouldn’t
have stopped it. I have no valid reason. Yet Thraxa senses
my unease. “What’s wrong?” she asks.
“Something’s not been sitting right,” I say. “There’s
something about him…”
“Then let’s bring him in.”
“Harnassus says the EMP is ﬂawless, and we’re jamming
any signal that leaves the peninsula just as much as
Atalantia is. If he’s a spy, I don’t know what the hell he’s
doing.”
She forks a piece of ﬁsh into her mouth. “You want to
talk about it?”
“It?”
“Your wife. My brother. Maybe the rest of my family.”
“No.” I watch her. “Do you want to talk about it?”
“Naw. Not my bag. But it ain’t fun. Is it?”
“No. It ain’t fun.” There’s an indistinct murmur from the
holo. Wait. I ﬁx on the holo as Thraxa frowns.
“What’s the matter?”

“Quiet.”
I amplify the sound and replay the murmur Cato made as
he slept. “Did you hear that?” I ask.
“Sounds like ‘something over all.’ ”
“ ‘Truth over all,’ ” I say. I’ve heard that before. But
when. When? I can’t pin my ﬁnger on it until a slippery
sensation works its way up my arm. I bolt upright and run
to the door.
“Your pie!” Thraxa calls after me.
—
I stand over the science team as they shake their heads at
my request for a DNA check. “We’ve been under constant
attack since we got to Mercury, sir. There’s no DNA census
without a re-upload from Skyhall. And we ran him against
all the Gold POWs.”
“Run it against this.” I thrust Sevro’s trophy at them. The
tech looks down at the bloody robes in confusion. “Now.” I
pace behind the techs as they work. It does not take long.
The computer beeps and before I look up, I know.
The DNA is related.
“Oh shit,” I hear the techs say as I bolt out of the room so
fast I send Thraxa tumbling over a chair. I call Screwface at
full sprint. He answers, covering his yawn with his
Heliopolitan scarf, having just returned from a patrol in the
mountains. “Iron up. Full pack.”
His face falls as he knows he failed. “They’re coming.”
“They’re coming.” Next I call Harnassus. He answers
peevishly from the Morning Star. “Are you with Glirastes?”
His weariness vanishes. “No. His shuttle is having
maintenance diﬀiculties.”
“Tell him I want to speak with him in the hangar. Once
he’s away from the machine, stun him, strip him naked,

scan him for embeds, and put him in a cell with a full
century standing guard. No one is to speak with him until I
get there. If he tries to touch anything unusual between
this moment and then, shoot him in the head. Then order
an evacuation of all support personnel to the ships. I want
everyone except combat ready to go.” I take a breath.
“Then get a particle beam pointed at the Spirit of Faran
and blow that EMP to hell.”
There’s a pause.
“Copy that. What’s what?”
“Patching a pool.” I use my master controls over my
Howlers’ network as I run, cutting out Alexandar and
Rhonna. Colloway joins from the conﬁnes of his isolation
chamber. Thraxa storms down the hall to link up with me.
Harnassus joins as he walks a complaining Glirastes out to
the hangar. When the rest of the pool has joined from all
across Heliopolis, I inform them and my private horror
becomes real: “An omega-level enemy asset has been
discovered inside the city. Glirastes has ﬂipped. That EMP
is for us. I’ve ordered its destruction. But it will be
coordinated with an outside assault. Prepare for heavy
enemy contact. Attack is imminent.”
Should I call Rhonna and Alexandar? Will it tip my enemy
oﬀ? If I don’t, he could take either of them hostage, or kill
them if he hears us coming. I have to risk it and trust their
discretion. Even then, if anyone could take down a single
man, it’s Alexandar. I use my master command to turn on
both of their cochlear implants. Rhonna is laughing and
admiring the Water Colossus. “Do not react. A Howler
strike team is on its way to your location. The man you are
sitting across from is not named Cato au Vitruvius. He is
Lysander au Lune. Wait for us. Do not engage him on your
own.”

***Lysander“When I first saw the Water Colossus, I thought
nothing could be that big.” Rhonna admires the ten-metertall model inside Glirastes’s museum to himself. “But then I
thought I’d never seen anything as big as Tinos, or the
Citadel of Light, or the Morning Star. That shit nearly
dropped my jaw. There’s always something bigger, ain’t
there?” She is much like her name, which means “rough
island” in ancient Gaelic. I doubt she knows how apt a
name it is. The young Red wants to be inviting, but just
can’t help being jagged around the edges.
Alexandar does not notice the jaggedness one bit.
Starlight ﬁlters through the glass dome, the light of
certain stars ampliﬁed to cast columns of light over the
models. From his recline on a bench, Alexandar sips his
sherry and gazes at the rough island as if she were the
monument itself.
Their unspoken tenderness seems already so frail to me.
Before the Ash Rain, it wouldn’t have.
HEN

“Nothing is as big as the Morning Star, my goodlady,
except the ego of a Valii-Rath,” Alexandar says, enjoying his
role as tour guide. It seems his education stumbled during
his house’s sojourn from Mars to Io to Luna to rebels. Even
in my anxiousness to depart, I remind myself to be civil and
correct none of his errors. “It took seven years to build.
Dozens of asteroids. But most of its metal came from the
mines of Mercury.”
Wrong.
Gods, how long do they intend to loiter? I hide my
vexation. My men will already be in motion. Glirastes
preparing his program. I must get to the Hippodrome. But
most galling of all, my two guests are becoming rude in
their lingering. If this is what passes for Martian manners, I
shudder to think of what Virginia has done to the Palatine.
My cousin’s enthusiasm for seeing me again has made it
impossible to extract myself from their company.
Something must be done. And soon. Yet a fresh variable
rears its ugly head. I’ve unfortunately noticed Alexandar no
longer tongues his new teeth as he did when he arrived.
“From the mines here? No shit. Shipping fees must have
put Octavia in her early grave,” Rhonna says with a folksy
whistle. “Costs me half a month’s pay just to send a
kilogram of loot back to Mars. How’m I supposed to get my
cigars home?” She glances at me with a grin. “Raided the
Votum vault, I did. You’re looking at the only purveyor of
Heliopolitan cigars in all Agea. Well, soon as we skip this
rock and make like pups for home, that is.”
She downs her glass, leaving ﬁngerprints all over the
bulb. Darrow’s stock, indeed. Her other hand hangs idle at
her side, no longer exhibiting the tic of playing with the
leather thong of her sidearm’s holster. This, along with
Alexandar’s diminished self-dentistry, has turned me cold. I
probe with the Mind’s Eye.

“Octavia made the people of Mars subsidize it,”
Alexandar explains. “She wanted the Rim to build a ﬂagship
paid for by Mars just to mock us. Especially after Darrow
purloined the Pax.”
“Not exactly true,” I say. “Octavia commissioned it four
years before the Vanguard was stolen. She paid the Julii
trading company the shipping fees using the tariﬀ revenues
levied on Nero au Augustus’s helium exports from his
mines, which your grandfather, Alexandar, watched him
steal from his sworn ArchGovernor. The Rising plutocrats
were willing beneﬁciaries of the Society before they tired of
it. In fact.” I look at Rhonna. “How many mines did your
family own, Alexandar?”
He smiles pleasantly back. “Oh, far fewer than yours, I
assume.”
I aﬀect a yawn, and then resort to violence.
I seize Rhonna’s left wrist and jerk her toward me, so
that my tight jab shatters her jaw. In the same movement, I
pull her slack body to me, strip her sidearm, and put it to
her temple. The tip of Alexandar’s whip stops taut less than
a centimeter from my right eye.
He recalls it in a beautiful maneuver that has him poised
for the Falling Leaf, a winding corkscrew of a downward
slash. He shows remarkable mastery of one of the Willow
Way’s more complicated strikes by freezing halfway into
the third motion.
His eyes stare at the gun I hold to Rhonna’s head.
In the moment, there is no rage for me in my cousin’s
eyes. Only fear for her.
I do not want to shoot Alexandar. I found no fault with
him in the mountains. Nor with his valor in the chase, nor
his humble heroism at Tyche. But the man he serves is a
plague. And he is just a noble symptom far too loyal for his
own good.

I point the gun at him and let Rhonna fall unconscious to
the ﬂoor.
“Lune,” he says.
“Arcos. I see Lorn gifted you the Willow after all.”
“Bold of you to say my grandfather’s name after what
Octavia did to him. You recall, yes? How she had Lilath au
Faran saw through his spine? From behind, like this…” He
slowly moves his blade back and forth. “All my life I was
compared to you. Cousin Lysander. Perfect Lysander.” He
looks me up and down. “You must be more than meets the
eye.”
“Put down the blade and get on your knees,” I say.
“Perish the thought.” He levels his blade at me. “How
about you pull that big iron from your boot, and we settle
who’s the Heir of Arcos.”
“Who is your favorite poet?” When he does not answer, I
choose for him:

“Ye labour for your fall
With your own hands! Not by surprise
Nor yet by stealth, but with clear eyes,
Knowing the thing ye do.”
He sneers at the gun. “No honor.”
“No time.”
I shoot Alexandar in the head.

***DarrowThe Lady Beatrice lies in darkness except for the faint

twinkling of lights through the windows of her west wing.
My Howlers land in force, Screwface taking a platoon
through the top windows, as I shoot a hole through the
front door and thunder in with Thraxa and her warhammer.
“Lune!” I shout.
“Come out, come out, you dumb little cur.” Thraxa slams
her hammer through a pillar. “Come out and face the Wee
Lass!”
There is no answer. No sound except the stomping of my
Howlers upstairs and the faint warbling from the rotating
crystal orb in the foyer. Its fractal light casts white
snowﬂakes on the stone ﬂoor as we rush into the home.
There’s a shout from the west wing.
“Goryhell,” Thraxa mutters as we enter Glirastes’s
museum.
I feel a tremor inside.
There is a body on the ﬂoor.

I stare down at it, and a maw of grief opens inside. The
boy who entered my life as an arrogant lancer and through
hardship became hero to an army lies in a pool of his own
blood. He has been mutilated. Half his head is missing.
Sightless eyes stare at the ceiling. Mouth half open in
surprise, as if he were wondering, Really? Like this?
There’s a low moan. Rhonna limps from behind a model of
the Water Colossus. Her face is nearly unrecognizable, her
jaw shattered. She falls to her knees in Alexandar’s blood.
Her scream tears me to tatters. How many years did they
stand apart from each other behind me? How many
precious few moments were they honest with each other?
They were robbed of so much joy, promised it, then robbed
again.
“Rhonna, where is he?” I whisper. “Rhonna, where is
Lune?”
She looks up at me with empty eyes and points up.
I motion a Howler forward. “Get her to the Morning
Star.”
Rhonna thrashes as the Howler manhandles her oﬀ
Alexandar and drags her to the door. The house rumbles.
Weapons ﬁre upstairs from Screwface’s platoon.
His voice crackles through: “Eyes on—”
“—shit.”
“—slagger dodged a bullet…”
“Shoot—”
“—homing mines on our six.”
Something detonates.
We leap to the second level, bypassing the stairs.
Screwface and his men ﬁre down a hallway. Two Howlers
are down. There’s a sucking sound. Screwface’s platoon
scatters, taking cover as a quarter of the house
disintegrates. My armor absorbs the shockwave, but the
wall does not. I stand as debris and dust swirl around me. A

shape moves through a distant room and then disappears
upward. Thraxa bursts after him.
“He’s got boots!” Screwface shouts.
The pack follows. Clearing the debris cloud, my optics
pick up a tiny shape racing for the city at incredible
velocity. New boots. His lead is already half a kilometer. We
rocket oﬀ in pursuit. I radio other elements held back from
the evacuation to cut him oﬀ. Response teams rise from
distant skyscrapers. RipWings drop from the ﬂier layer. My
army constricts around him. He banks left to avoid running
into a Rat Legion squad from the Mound. Mini-missiles
streak after him and detonate against the sides of
skyscrapers as he threads his way through the business
district. Glass rains on us as we follow in his wake. We bank
left to cut him oﬀ when he passes through the eye of a
circular tower. He sees our intent, and shoots straight
upward, ﬁring a hole through the glass side of the building.
He disappears inside. We hover around the building,
forming a perimeter. I send four Howlers in after him. Then
I understand as Screwface banks down.
“Ground ﬂoor,” I bark. Thraxa and sixteen others rip
downward with me just as glass explodes outward from the
second ﬂoor. He took a gravLift shaft down. I ﬁre my
pulseFist on full auto. Screwface ﬂies underneath, taking
slow aim. Chunks of concrete erupt as Lune weaves
through our ﬁre and takes oﬀ through a canyon of
mercantile buildings, heading north.
“Damn, kid can ﬂy,” Thraxa mutters.
“Thank Cassius, the pretty bastard,” Screwface curses.
Is he here too? I pray not. If he’s gone over…
As Lysander gains altitude, I spare a look south of the
city to the spaceport. The torchShip I ordered to destroy
the Spirit lowers itself midway up the Morning Star’s hull
to gain a ﬁring solution. Too slow. Too damn slow. Just blow

that EMP to hell. I radio them to shoot through the
Morning Star.
Lune’s lead has diminished. We’re barely two hundred
meters behind him, close enough to see him looking back
over his shoulder at us with the naked eye. He wears light
armor and a heavy old helmet.
“What the…” Screwface mutters. “Boss, nine o’clock.”
Lysander’s face blooms in the skyline, a broadcast to all
the holoscreens. Not just that. Inside a passing skyscraper,
the rooms ﬁll with sudden illumination. The whole city
glows with his message. Somehow he hardhacked the feed.
I don’t listen to his words. He’ll be exhorting them to
arms, as he watched me do on Phobos so many years ago.
The attack will come from the inside ﬁrst. He’s heading for
the prisoner camp in the shadow of the Hippodrome.
Fireballs bloom around the prison camp. Not at the
guard towers with their antipersonnel cannons or at the
tank garages, but along the walls. Through the billowing
smoke, men on ﬁre ﬂail in chaotic dances. From the sky
they look like lightning bugs in fog. More explosions go oﬀ
across the city. Not one near the heavily defended shield
generator.
My targeting system registers a lock on Lune’s
gravBoots’ thermal signature and I ﬁre my six minimissiles. Vapor trails scar the air between us as they reel
him in. Then he seems to divide, impossibly.
“Bailed out!” Screwface calls.
Lysander’s gravBoots carry on without him as he falls
barefoot from the sky. The missiles streak after the boots
and detonate with a white ﬂash. Lysander plummets
downward end over end before crashing into the central
pool of the Water Gardens. We overshoot him and by the
time we bank around it is too late. Warning lights appear
on my holoDisplay indicating rapidly changing electric and

magnetic ﬁelds. A black pupil spawns at the center of the
Morning Star as the lights of the ships wink out.
Dark is the tide that rolls over the spaceport and the city,
swallowing the phalanxes of tanks and Drachenjägers upon
the Field of Phaethon. It plunges the oﬀice spires, the
Hippodrome, the Mound, and the great shield generators
into darkness. Above, the iridescent shield that protected
us against Atalantia ﬂickers, and then goes oﬀ. The
glittering cloak of ﬂiers that drifted over the city glitters no
more, and the ships become indistinct shadows as they
plummet from the sky.
We fall with them.

***LysanderHeliopolis, City of the Sun, lies in darkness. Darrow and

his Howlers disappear from the sky as their gravBoots fail
and they plummet down into shadows. Ships crash across
the skyline without the dignity of balls of ﬁre or white
ﬂashes from overloading reactors.
I swim to the edge of the pool and jump down to the next
level of the fountain, nearly losing hold of the Horn of
Helios as I drop down. There’s a terriﬁc crash from above
as a troop carrier collides with the head of Poseidon,
breaking oﬀ his right ear and tearing the carrier in two.
One piece slams down into the topmost pool plate. The
second spins through the air, passing less than ten meters
over my head. Half a hundred men are still strapped into
their seats. Their faces pass close enough I can see the
acne on a Brown’s forehead before they smash into a
building below.
Water rains down on me.

I look up. Over my head, the topmost plate of the
Gardens is cracking under the weight of the larger half of
the carrier. I jump from the pool to the one beneath just as
the topmost plate gives way and a hundred tons of marble
and ship smash down on the pool beneath. It becomes an
avalanche of stone and water and ship collapsing each
plate, gaining on me as I jump frantically down the
monument.
I hit the ground level of the plaza and roll, barely
outracing the debris that crashes down behind me. Chunks
of rock the size of horses roll across the plaza, crumpling
the bodies of bystanders and splintering trees. Something
hits me hard in the back of the skull and I go sprawling.
Blood leaks down my back when I regain my feet. Dust
billows all around. I search until I ﬁnd the horn. Then I run.
Somehow, running in the darkness through the bedlam, I
ﬁnd the Via Triumphia. Rising legionnaires shout to one
another in the black streets. I jump, grab the lip of a low
wall, and scramble up till I’m on the rooftops. There I strip
open my rucksack and change into lightweight boots. I
wrap the loyalist razor around my left arm, and try
Alexandar’s better-crafted blade. Its response to my touch
is exemplary. The whip cracks as it lashes out to wrap
around the metal support of an overhead solar array. I
swing out across the gaps between the roofs and toggle the
razor into a blade. It releases as it cuts through the array
and I land on the other side. More arrays fall behind me as
I swing north over the dark streets with the Horn of Helios.
The mayhem of the prison break is illuminated in
stuttered ﬂashes of gunﬁre. With electricity ﬂowing, those
prisoners taken in the Battle of the Ladon were at the
mercy of the Rising. Now Gold and Obsidian athletes scale
the walls and tear their lowColor guards to ribbons with
their bare hands.

I keep well clear. I can’t mobilize them in the chaos on
foot. Exeter and Glirastes’s servants will have laid the
charges on the pen housing my Praetorians. They may
already be under way. I’m the laggard here.
I vault another roof, almost impaling myself on a
clothesline pole as I head breakneck for the Hippodrome. I
was meant to land in the center of the arena, where
loyalists would be waiting. But Alexandar ruined my timing
and jeopardized my initiative.
Darrow was in pulseArmor. The lack of electrical
assistance will paralyze the weaker Howlers under the
armor’s weight, but not soldiers like Darrow or Thraxa.
He’ll wake in some arcade, or upon some roof, surrounded
by chaos from which no man could possibly salvage a
victory. But Darrow built his legend on such moments. The
EMP wave went farther than expected. I can’t see the
lights of Atalantia’s ships in orbit. How far did it go on the
ground? How long till she moves more elements in? Given
time, Darrow will summon some martial necromancy. So
when I come south for his army, it must be with shock and
awe.
I use a market stall awning to slow my descent as I swing
from the rooftops down to ground level and weave through
dead automobiles outside the Hippodrome. “Lune!” I shout
as I approach the main pedestrian entry arch at a run.
“Invictus!” someone replies. A dozen midColor loyalists
with gas-powered riﬂes step out of the shadows. They wave
me to the left into the arcade beneath the stadium seats
where concessions are sold and bets made on race day.
Gunpowder weapons crackle in the distance. I ﬁnd the door
to the subterranean stables unlocked. Two Rising sentries
lie outside it with holes in their heads. A wall of horse
stench hits my nose as I burst from the stairwell into the
stables.

Lit by the eerie ﬂames of torches, one of Glirastes’s
servants waits for me with a dozen Obsidian stablehands in
the proud race-day livery of House Votum. “Hail Lune!”
they say, falling to their knees on the straw-strewn ﬂoor.
They rise again, staring at me in the low light to tend the
anxious herd of saddled sunbloods. None but Obsidians
could wrangle such intrepid beasts. I search their eyes.
They are barely kin with those who follow Seﬁ. They know
no other life but Mercury. No life but these horses. No life
but service. I salute them as they fulﬁll their noble task and
extend my arms for the loyalists to buckle the waiting suit
of armor to me. It is old gear. Circuits long dead. Bone
white with a crude crescent welded onto the front and
back.
Glirastes is incorrigible.
“So you’re Cicero’s Blood of Empire,” I say to the horse
set out before the rest. For once, Cicero was not
hyperbolic. It is as if every horse I have seen before this
day, even Atalantia’s prized creatures, were nothing more
than early drafts of this ultimate creation. He towers over
me, clearing twenty-ﬁve hands at the withers with still
more muscled shoulder to measure. His hooves are the size
of dinner plates, his mane as brilliant an orange as his
irises. His white coat dappled steel gray. Haughty eyes
watch me. He bucks his head as I approach, lifting the two
Obsidian stablehands oﬀ their feet.
When they wrangle him back down, I cut my hand and
wave the blood over his nose so he can smell it. He tilts his
head, his eyes searching mine. I bring my nose to his, as is
the dangerous custom with sunbloods. He could snap oﬀ
my face with ease, but I keep my voice soothing and he lets
me stroke his muzzle. With a snort, he bends his front legs
in obeisance.
The Obsidians cheer. They had wondered if the horse
would ﬁnd me worthy. “Blood knows blood, my liege,” their

old stablemaster rumbles. “He will bear you over a sea of
slaves.”
—
The ramp used by charioteers to enter the Hippodrome
slams down in a cloud of dust. Blood of Empire has been
here before even if I have not. His hooves paw the sand,
impatient for the glory to which he has become entitled. It
has been years since I’ve ridden a horse, and in all of
human history, how many have graced the back of such a
terrible prize as this? I fear disgracing this king of horses
more than I do the coming violence. With an intake of
breath, I grip the Horn of Helios and dig my heels into his
sides.
It is like riding lightning.
The ramp blurs past underneath. Suddenly we are upon
the surface of the Hippodrome. No sea of faces awaits us.
No adulation. Only a black sky, the empty stadium, and a
ragged band of men jogging across the sand in tattered
uniforms, Rhone and Kalindora at their lead. The loyalists
who led the attack on the Republic prison led them here for
me.
The Praetorians and Kalindora are shocked to ﬁnd me
alive.
I spare no time for pleasantries as I circle them atop
Blood of Empire. “Upon Luna, upon Earth, upon Mars, they
say that the Praetorian Guard is dead!” I shout. “That they
have faded into the maw of history like morning fog over
the sea! That nothing remains but the memory of the giants
that once walked the worlds! Rhone ti Flavinius!” I cry.
“Before all things, what are the Praetorian Guard?”
“Equestrians!” he bellows.
“And what is your duty?”

“To protect the blood of Lune!”
“Will you ride with me today, Rhone ti Flavinius?”
“With honor, my liege!”
“Are you a memory?” I ask the Praetorians as Blood
continues to canter around them.
“No!”
“Are you giants!”
“Yes!”
“Will you ride with me today? For the glory of your
forebearers. For the resurrection of the Society. For the
honor of the guard! Will you ride with me?”
“Yes!” they roar. Only Kalindora remains silent.
I take the Horn of Helios from the saddle and blow a
sonorous note. And from the belly of the Hippodrome, the
herd of Votum, pride of Heliopolis, stampedes upward
under a black sky. The stablehands bear up crates of
weapons provided by the loyalists, and when my
Praetorians are mounted, Kalindora walks up beside me
with a look of disapproval. The left sleeve of her prisoner
jumpsuit hangs slack, the arm Darrow cut oﬀ rotting in the
desert. But her sword arm looks restless.
“What a hunger for blood you have acquired in the
desert,” she says. “Did you survive that sandstorm just to
die in these streets? If we wait for Atalantia—”
“We will be at her mercy. Is that why you brought me the
Praetorians?” She does not reply. “He will win whose army
is animated by the same spirit throughout its ranks. The
Society needs victory. Not a slaughter. Too long have the
rabble had a monopoly on glory. Today we reclaim it. I
would have the Love Knight at my side as we do.” I extend
the loyalist razor to her. With a growing smile, she reaches
forward.

***DarrowThump. Thump. Distant screams and rage. The shrieking of

metal on metal. In the darkness, ﬂashes of ﬂailing limbs,
gnashing teeth, screaming mouths. I watch the violence
painted in fragmented impressionist brushstrokes.
My armor is dead. My helmet’s internal screen black,
vision now constricted to the narrow duroglass emergency
slits in the helmet’s eyes. Beyond my helmet is frenzy. They
beat on my armor with ﬁsts, hammers, blocks of masonry,
fence poles, and all manner of improvised urban weaponry.
They fell on me after I crashed through a storefront and
struggled up from the debris, my legs snared by electrical
wire. First it was two, then two became a mob. Now I
cannot move for the mound of humanity atop me. They
besiege the Sciantus-made armor with anything they can
ﬁnd. A Brown street cleaner sits on my chest hammering a
long piece of rebar into the joints with a chunk of masonry,
desperate for my blood. A Silver kicks at my groin till his
foot breaks and he hobbles away. A Gray sits on my arm,

trying to pry open my balled gauntlets so he can break my
ﬁngers one by one. Two old Red women pin my head
between them and start hammering at the eyeholes with
improvised chisels as they fumble for the emergency
switch. They ﬁnd it, but I’ve already locked it.
Fortunately, the armor is a tough nut to crack.
I can only imagine they’re doing the same to my downed
men all over Heliopolis. Lysander has woken the sleeping
giant that we kept alive with our meds. But beyond the
screaming mob, the sky is black and empty of Atalantia’s
ships. Did the EMP reach all the way to orbit? I see no
dreadnought lights above.
My ships will be dead at the spaceport. Our shield down.
This is the end, but I refuse to let the mob swallow me
like it did my wife.
The mob clears except for those holding me down while
several lowColors stagger over with a block of masonry the
size of a man. They hold it over my head and drop it. A
ringing ﬁlls my ears from the internal concussion. The
reinforced warhelm dents but does not break. They get
clever and drag me toward the local park, making a
hideous parade, where they hold me down before a tall
headless statue of a Votum ancestor. They tie electrical
cables around my arms and legs, and four teams pull my
body taut as the rest of them loop the cable around the
neck of the statue and begin to heave. It rocks on its
pedestal, each heave bringing it closer and closer to its
tipping point, after which several tons of marble will fall
and test the metalworking of Martian forges. I wait as the
four teams on my limbs strain and sweat, pulling against
what they think is my strength, but is actually the
reinforced skeleton of the armor. They waste their eﬀort. I
save mine for one desperate gambit.
When the statue ﬁnally tips forward with a cheer from
the mob, I roar and jerk as hard as I can with my right leg

and right arm. The sudden force sends the teams of men
stumbling forward, impossibly oﬀ balance. Then I see why.
Several young Heliopolitan Reds smash into them from
behind, knocking them oﬀ their feet. Still they don’t let go
of the line. In a sudden explosion of pure force, the muscles
of my right leg and right arm pull for everything they’re
worth against their teams. They’re jolted forward, even as
the men on the left keep pulling, helping me drag them into
the path of the teetering statue.
The timing is almost comedic.
Several tons of stone make wet boneless sacks of men.
The teams on the left stop pulling, suddenly appalled by the
sight of pulverized men and the bath of gore it entails. It is
nothing to me. I unravel myself and stand in the dead heavy
armor.
That they are not the same mob that butchered Daxo and
mutilated my wife does not matter. I kill them all.
The Brown street cleaner rushes for me with his piece of
rebar. My punch is slowed by the weight of my unpowered
armor, but not by much, and I am still the war god Mickey
carved using all his infernal devices. I need no razor for
this mindless dreck. This man is tiny. My metal ﬁst
collapses the side of his skull and shatters vertebrae. I lift
the Silver who kicked my groin by his throat and squeeze
until I feel spine. I shatter a man’s femur with a stomp, and
collapse his sternum into his heart as I march over him to
break a woman’s jaw. Rib cages crackle under armored
boots like twigs as I tread through them in systematic
slaughter.
As a mob they were a single organism. In fear, they
divide. In death, they become lonely as I weave them into
my twitching meat carpet.
When all have ﬂed or died, there is no one left to kill but
a convulsing Silver boy who huddles by what remains of his
father underneath the statue. One sight of his wide eyes

and slack jaw and desperate begging stops me like a wall.
Seeing myself through his eyes, I am disgusted. So I wheel
away back into my world.
The Reds who came to my aid stand watching me. There
are six of the sunbaked laborers. Not a one older than
twenty. They stand with their ﬁsts in a salute. I open an
external pouch manually and ﬁnd the helm key. I insert it
into the collar until a latch pops. I roll back the wolf’s head
helm and suck down the fresh air. The young Reds stare up
at me. They might have thought they recognized my armor
before, but now they see my face, and they take a step back
in fear.
“I lost my razor on the rooftops. Find it.”
By the time the skinniest of them returns with my
slingBlade in his trembling hands, another crowd has
formed down the street. They’re trying to decide whether
it’s worth rushing me. I take the blade from the boy. They
see its shape. They run.
I nod to the Red and, weighed down by forty kilos of dead
armor, rush to ﬁnd my men.
My miracle has turned into bedlam.
Heliopolis is in chaos. Screams drift over the city. The
streets are pitch dark. Gunshots crackle from conventional
arms. Downed ships smolder and send black clouds of
smoke twirling up into the darkness. Bands of citizens
armed with improvised weapons answer Lune’s call and
begin to rove the streets, dragging sympathizers from their
doorways to stab metal in their guts or cave their heads in
with rocks. A band of rubble-armed Heliopolitan highColors
eyes me down a boulevard before carrying on, looking for
easier kills. Each street is a new horror. I watch from a
stone balcony looking down into an arcade as one of my
citizen outreach patrols is cornered by a mob. With their
pulseRiﬂes dead, they have only their long utility knives to

protect them. The mob keeps their distance and stones
them to death before I can ﬁnd a way down.
I encounter bands of my men and frantic stragglers in
the streets. Six have conventional weapons. By the empty
magazine pouches, I see they’ve been using them. Most
stragglers come from downed ships or local strongpoints.
Panic grips the army. When they hold their ground, armies
suﬀer, but when they retreat hysterically they die. We can’t
all retreat at the same time. Guessing Lysander’s force,
when it comes, will cut oﬀ my two million support troopers
billeted in the city, I order a Red centurion to send runners
to the other strongpoints and tell them to marshal at the
Water Plaza.
I follow the directions of a medicus who says he saw the
Howlers forming up in a square nearby. Before I make it
there, I’m drawn by the glow of a ﬁre in the mouth of an
alleyway.
Turning the corner, I ﬁnd a gang of highColor youths
standing over someone in armor, dumping mechanical oil
on the blaze they’ve set. They take oﬀ running when they
see me. I look around the alley for something to put out the
blaze. Shouting comes from the street. Three White Fleet
pilots, bleeding from a crash landing, tear around the
corner, chased by a dozen men with clubs and a young Gold
with his heirloom family razor. They skid to a stop as they
see me standing there covered in blood. I pull my razor and
they run.
They’ll ﬁnd more of my men, so I hunt them down. In the
armor, I’m too slow to catch the Gold and a Red, but I kill
the rest from behind.
The pilots have put out the blaze by the time I return. I
brush the sand they piled on Thraxa’s armor and twist the
hidden emergency release. She’s not breathing. The ﬂames
would have prevented oxygen from entering her helmet. I
perform mouth-to-mouth until she gasps against me.

“I’m prime,” she says, eyes still wild. “I’m prime. Get oﬀ.”
She sits up in a daze and looks around at the darkness in ill
temper. “That little odious shit. The ships?”
“Dead. Seems the EMP hit orbit too. No telling the
range.”
“I’ll wring that overbred prat’s neck!”
“We got to ﬁnd him ﬁrst.”
I help her to her feet and she staggers with the pilots and
me to the square. We ﬁnd Screwface and most of the other
Howlers giving orders to several thousand infantry from a
dozen diﬀerent legions.
“Boss!” Screwface shouts over the chaos. He rushes to
me.
“What’s what?” I ask as Thraxa helps me roll open my
helmet.
“Hazard bedlam,” he says. “Whole city, looks like. Ships
too. Strongpoints are solid, but there’s shuttles down all
over the city. We got half the pack looking for you. Been
sending out teams for them and bringing the wounded back
here.” He nods to the wounded at the far side of the market
as the rest of the Howlers form a semicircle around me. For
a moment, I feel as if I am back at the Institute, though of
their number only Screwface still has the stink of dead
horse about him. Not for the ﬁrst time, I’m thankful for my
peculiar education. I know what to do when the lights go
out.
“The city is lost. But looks like the EMP hit orbit too,” I
tell them. “It’ll be hours before those dreadnoughts are
back online. The fact that the skies are empty means her
ground forces got hit—given the range. She’ll have to bring
her other ships from picket or far-side to send armor, but
once it comes she’ll have two thousand years of tech on us.
Then it’s game over. We have to get as many men out of the

city and into the mountains as we can before Atalantia
brings those ships around. We have far less than an hour.”
I sketch a quick map of the city in the dirt with my
slingBlade, making triangles for armories holding
conventional weapons. They crouch to see it better in the
gloom. I draw a circle for the Hippodrome to the northeast.
“Lysander knew the EMP range. If he were practical,
he’d hold for reinforcements. But he’s going for glory. He’ll
try to take the city while Atalantia is knocked out. He
landed here.” I draw a rectangle to the south for the Water
Plaza. “The POWs were held here.” I draw an X west of the
Hippodrome, north of us. “Soon we’ll have several hundred
thousand veteran troops pouring south with unknown
armaments.” I mark several circles ﬁve kilometers south of
the Hippodrome, two south of us. “These are our support
barracks and administrative oﬀices. They have not yet been
evacuated. I’ve sent runners to tell them to move south en
masse. The ﬂeet is dead, so they’ll be heading for the
mountain tunnels. They are hackers, medici, clerks,
engineers, orderlies. Those prisoners are Iron Leopards
and XX Fulminata, some of the toughest sons of bitches in
the Core. With no tech, those Obsidians and Golds will be
murder machines. We will not let them catch our friends.
They’ve held us up, now we get their backs.
“Six main boulevards lead south. We will barricade them
and hold the line here.” I draw a line across the sand south
of the Water Plaza. X. On that line, what remains of my
infantry in the city will die to buy the rest time. “The
strongpoints have gunpowder weapons and grenades, but
only enough for one man in ten. Give them to the Gray and
Red snipers. All guns should be on the rooftops—expect the
Golds to be running the roofs, so fortify your men the best
you can between the plazas, and give them melee support.
Remember they can jump streets. Use your dark-age

training. This isn’t the ﬁrst time gear’s been down. You
ﬁght a Gold alone, you die. Fight together.”
I give a boulevard apiece to four diﬀerent Howlers,
putting Screwface on the right ﬂank, nearest the tunnels
and farthest from the Mound.
“And what about you, boss?” he asks.
I put my ﬁnger in the center of the map at the Water
Gardens.
“Thraxa and I will hold the Via Triumphia. Lysander is
too young to go anywhere else. If he wants to make a name
for himself slaughtering my men, he has to go through me.
If your line breaks, do not head for the tunnels. It’s too far.
Their Golds will run you down. Retreat to the Mound. We’ll
make our stand there.” I look into their faces. Not a man or
woman amongst them expects to survive the hour. But as
the waiting has ended, so too has the fear. Not one quibbles
or shies from duty. I could not be prouder. “If I do not see
you at the Mound, I will meet you in the Vale. Goodspeed.”
I grab Screwface as the rest disperse. “Be safe.”
He just laughs.
“Legion!” Thraxa roars.
All across the market, the infantry slam their heels
together and raise their ﬁsts as we jog past. “Hail libertas!
Hail Reaper!”

***DarrowFragments of scattered legions join my procession as we

rush to secure the Via Triumphia, swelling our numbers to
upwards of twenty thousand if I had to guess. Five
thousand join us from the district’s strongpoint bearing
crates of gunpowder weapons, which are disbursed to our
snipers and riﬂemen. We have six hundred working guns in
total, ﬁfteen gas-powered grenade launchers. Though they
are little more than clubs now, many cling to the energy
weapons that never made them equal to Golds on the
killing ﬁeld, but at least gave them a chance. Conventional
rounds just don’t pack the same punch.
To give our men polearms, we hew down fences and
signposts with our razors as we pass. Another swell of men
come from the now-useless artillery batteries. Thraxa
waves to a little Pink girl who fogs her apartment’s window
as she watches us. We have failed her like we failed those
Red boys who came to my aid. Soon they will know the
mines and she will be returned to the Gardens where she

will know only the pleasure of others, and one day think of
her childhood when the Rising came as little more than a
fantasy.
We make it to the choke point just as scouts from
Lysander’s force reach the rooftops on the other side of the
Water Plaza. Through the legs of the mighty statue of
Poseidon, I see them moving roof to roof. The fastest have
already summited the stone wreckage of Poseidon’s fallen
plates. They double back to report our movements as our
snipers start picking them oﬀ.
“So he is pushing,” Thraxa says.“That unctuous twat.
Why wouldn’t he just wait for armor?”
“He wants to make a name for himself in slaughter,” I
say. “I thought better of that boy.”
“Of course you did. Sevro was right. Should have ended
the line in the Maw.”
Together, we look north. The cityscape lies in darkness.
The Hippodrome like the bent head of a shadowy giant.
Through the roots of those buildings, Lysander’s army will
be moving south. The Golds rushing ahead for glory and
revenge. No doubt thinking our humane treatment of their
radiation sickness to be some kind of genetic moral
weakness on our part. The Obsidians won’t be far behind.
And then a sea of veteran Gray killers from the shores of
Venus, the furnace of Mercury, the old lands of Earth, the
megahoods of Luna, and even the highlands of my home.
All coming to kill my men.
Should we not have fed them? Should we not have healed
them?
The Water Plaza itself is a kilometer-by-kilometer square
of white marble, in the center of which Poseidon stands
over whitewashed sandstone and ﬂowering sunblossom
trees. The fallen plates make a stack of rubble to the north,
but between Poseidon’s legs the plaza is ﬂat and open. The

Via Triumphia encircles the Water Gardens in a roundabout
littered with dead vehicles. I send snipers into the buildings
on the southern edge of the plaza and on the rooftops,
putting my Howler snipers in two stone bell towers and
atop a triumphal arch. Gunshots crackle as they continue
picking oﬀ Lune’s scouts. I see the men of our adjacent
force climbing the rooftops to the east.
A thin line of resistance forms across Heliopolis.
Far to the west, gunﬁre echoes. “Screwface is already
under assault,” Thraxa says. “If Lune masses there, we’ll be
ﬂanked.”
“He won’t. I want you on the roof.”
She looks at our few Golds and Obsidians. “You need me
as a bulwark. To hold the line.”
“We’re not going to be able to hold it,” I say. “But that
boy out there can rally the whole bloodydamn system
behind him if we let him become a hero. We’re here to kill
him.” I shout at a group of three Rat Legion snipers. The
Reds bob up to me like jackrabbits. “You any good?” I ask
them. The dourest of them answers ﬁrst.
“It’s our calling, sir.”
I take the gas riﬂes I reserved in case we ran into more
Howler snipers. The three men drop their improvised
weapons and cradle the guns like diamonds. I toss them the
armor-piercing magazines.
“There are sixty-six bullets in these magazines. All sixtysix are for Lune.” I point to three windows. “I want you
there, there, and there. Expect snipers. Do not reveal your
position, not for any reason, until you have him in your
sights. Do you understand?”
“Do you know what he looks like?” Thraxa asks.
They nod. “His face was on a broadcast before the EMP,”
the handsome one says in the same accent. Two of them
even look alike.

“You all brothers?” I ask.
“Yessir.”
“If this goes tits-up, use the roofs to get to the Mound.
Bag me a Lune.”
They take oﬀ. Thraxa stares across the plaza. I put a
hand on her shoulder. “If they don’t drop him, crush his
skull on the way down.”
“Got it.”
She jogs oﬀ. Blood sprinkles down from above. I look up
and see a man falling from a rooftop. A centurion shouts a
warning for enemy snipers. “Where the hell did they get
gunpowder?” someone shouts. Where else but from the
Heliopolitans. Muzzles ﬂash on northern rooftops.
As the sniper duel rages, the Golds and Obsidians help
me drag abandoned ground transports and civilian
hovercraft just shy of the southern mouth of the Triumphia
where it exits the plaza. We’ve blocked only half of the ﬁftymeter-wide artery when a spotter calls to Thraxa on a
rooftop and she calls down to me: “Enemy cavalry spotted!”
I look to the air instinctively. It is empty. And then I hear
the thunder on the ground. My insides twist. He’s emptied
the stables. The last time I heard hoofbeats and felt anxiety
was nearly sixteen years ago.
The oceanic sound of an army shouting with one voice
drifts from the northern city. I can barely make out the
words.
“…Invictus! Per ordo…”
“Form up!” I bellow. “Form up! To me! To me! Reds to the
roofs! Reds to the roofs! Thraxa!” As the Reds rush up
stairwells along the Triumphia, Thraxa peers down at me.
“Let them hit, then fall on: red rain!”
She understands what I mean and ducks as a fusillade of
enemy ﬁre chews into the façades of the buildings. The
Howlers in the bell tower are gone, killed already. Long

shadows sprint along the rooftops west and east of the
plaza, hurtling six-meter-wide streets as easy as children
hop over brooks. Some are shot mid-leap and spin down
between the buildings, but in a world without electricity,
the Peerless Scarred are kings. They clash into my rooftop
elements along our ﬂanks.
The sea of voices is a creeping tide.
“Lune! Invictus! Lune! Invictus! Per ordo. Per ordo…”
I roll up my helmet.
On the ground, every legionnaire without gunpowder
rushes for the meager security of our barricade. They look
to each other, mouthing the dreaded word: “Lune.” I stand
in the empty center around a lone family hovercraft. My
thirteen Golds and forty Obsidians cluster around me in
their dead armor to make a hedgehog of bristling razors. I
wish Alexandar were with me. I wish Sevro had my back. I
wish Ragnar were here, and Orion in the sky. But these are
my brothers and sisters too.
We toggle the razors so they take on their leanest and
longest form, nearly a meter and a half. Not nearly long
enough. The lowColors gather on our wings, sixty men deep
behind the vehicles, some few holding polearms of metal
fence posts or signs, and they shiver in dread as they see
what’s coming. Even the droning death chant of the
Obsidians stutters when they hear the sonorous lament of
the initium horn.
Once, on a mission for Nero, I had the privilege of
witnessing something no lowRed of Mars had ever seen
before: a race in the Hippodrome of Heliopolis. The sun
was bright, the streets ﬁlled with music, honey wine, and
the smell of spiced ginger locust sweets. Out of respect for
my patron, the Votum allowed me backstage before the
initium horn to see the riders preparing. In the shadowy
recesses of the underground stables, I saw sunblood
stallions for the ﬁrst time. Until then, I’d only known the

horses of the Institute, animals of sixteen hands. They were
terrifying enough to my mine eyes. But they are little more
than donkeys compared to sunbloods. Weighing nearly one
ton and twenty-three hands tall, with bone-pale coats and
ﬁery manes, capable of speeds up to eighty kilometers per
hour at full gallop, the beasts I saw race were barely horses
at all. Monsters, I thought, feeling a kinship with that
unnatural bloodline. Beautiful monsters made for one
purpose.
The race I watched ended in catastrophe, with the
winner’s prize stallion biting oﬀ the head of a competitor
when he came at the winner waving a whip. The Gold
owners were horriﬁed, but how the crowd cheered.
How did I ever think these people would embrace
liberty?
Now two, three, four hundred, maybe more, of the most
powerful chariot horses that have ever lived have come to
war. They rumble into the northern mouth of the Via
Triumphia in an avalanche of white muscle and ﬁery manes
and multihued festival saddles, ridden with terrible grace
by the equestrians amongst the prisoners of war—Grays
and Golds. They’ll go through us like an anvil through
glass.
But glass can cut. And if we run, it’ll be massacre.
“Stand fast!” I roar at my veterans, conjuring the only
trick I have left. Bullets smack into our armor, sending
some stumbling. Grenades detonate amongst the horses,
sending some screaming. “When I give the command ‘Line,’
form a line three deep! When I give the command ‘Flat,’ go
ﬂat and hold your razor like this! Trust your weapon. Trust
your armor! Stand fast!”
Gunshots rattle through the plaza. Ours and theirs. Men
are kicked back from windows and duck on the rooftops
from precision shots by Lysander’s escorts, dying as they
desperately ﬁre down at the horses. Riders spill from

saddles. Horses go down with shattered fetlocks and
inhuman screams. One takes more than a dozen shots to
the neck before it falls full speed into a transport,
crumpling the hull and throwing its rider dozens of meters
through the air for him to land in a human smear. But the
tide does not break. It quickens. The sound of thunder is
all. Rattling my eardrums, ﬁlling my gut with dread.
“LINE!”
My cluster of armored men unfolds to stand in a thin line
at the center of the formation.
Then I see him amongst them, riding at the fore of the
charge in white armor, the reins in one hand, a razor in the
other. The boy whose grandmother I killed in front of him.
The boy I spared for the sake of decency. The boy Aja
trained and Cassius raised, who looked me in the eye and
mocked me with lies before returning here like a demon to
haunt those foolish enough to practice mercy. Frozen in
time atop a monstrous steed, bald from radiation, face set
not with vanity but grim determination, leaning forward in
a saddle that ﬂutters with ribbons of a hundred colors, he
looks magniﬁcent.
His head snaps back. For an exultant moment, I think my
snipers have put one through his brain. But then his head
comes forward, scarlet along the side, his mouth a wild
rictus as he lowers himself to his horse and it explodes
forward, faster than all the rest. Two more rounds spark oﬀ
his armor.
I tremble in fear as my horizon becomes one of ﬂaring
nostrils, frothing muzzles, and trampling hooves. A dozen
horses ﬁll my ﬁeld. Lysander weaves right, around my
hedgehog and toward the frailer wings.
In the age of starships, you forget what animals can do to
men. Lysander reminds me as he plunges forty thousand
kilograms of horsepower through the wings of my line. The
sudden acceleration of horseﬂesh into human bodies

creates shearing forces as the momentum of the charge
meets the inertia of the internal organs. Men are literally
pulverized from the inside out. Organs tear. Brains
hemorrhage. Blood vessels rupture. Spines collapse
backward.
Even as the friction of the corpses slows the horses, they
do not stop their killing. Hooves ﬂatten skulls. Teeth of
racehorses trained for the conﬂict of the Hippodrome snap
oﬀ faces. Screams turn to gurgles as men are spun through
the blender of hooves, manage to crawl free, only to have
their backs broken by the next steed.
The horses bear down on the center of my line.
“Flat!”
I fall backward before the onrushing wave, razor held in
both hands, its pommel at my belly button, with the blade
that can cut through ten centimeters of starShell armor
sticking a meter and a half into the air. Fifty-three other
armored men do the same a bare second before the horses
trample us.
Incandescent explosions of lights in my head.
Unreal weight and sound. Hooves slamming into my
armor, my helmet. Underbellies, tails, bottoms of bare feet,
of boots as I’m kicked and trampled in an unending
stampede. But even horses made of one ton of muscle and
bone and blood cannot stomp through armor meant to
withstand pulseFire or run through a ﬁeld of razor blades
undaunted. We shred them.
Gore like I’ve never seen pours down on us. The screams
of dying horses are worse by far than those of men. Yet the
herd animals keep coming, running straight over the blades
so thin that in the darkness they cannot see them as they
sever bones in half and open bellies and muscled chests so
cleanly that the horses’ momentum carries them like

cannonballs past us to spill shrieking and dying into the
back of their fellows who crushed our wings.
Any Roman ground commander worth his salt would tell
you that robbing the velocity from a cavalry charge is the
ﬁrst step to killing it.
With the Via Triumphia turned into a charnel house of
dying horses and dying men, I stumble to my feet. Blood
obscures my eye slits. A horse on its side with its guts
spilling out kicks me so hard in the helmet that my
duroglass eyeholes ﬁnally crack and I go down. Try to
stand. My neck is sprained. Maybe fractured. Something
hits me from behind, and I fall. Through the fragmented
vision of my cracked visor I see a horse coming at me at full
gallop. I throw myself to the side just as a Gold rider leans
sideways oﬀ her saddle, nearly parallel with the ground,
and swings her razor down. The blade peels a chunk of
metal from the back of my thigh, then skips sideways, and
she’s past. I hack blindly at the back legs of the horse but
don’t see if I connect.
That was Kalindora. The Love Knight herself. Out of
respect for her treatment of our prisoners, I kept her with
her men. Now I pay for it.
Someone hauls me up. A horse chest hits me from the
side and I’m lifted oﬀ my feet, kicked under several others
and spun around and around until I crawl free and ﬁnd a
wall to guard my back. On my feet, but unable to see, I
press my emergency release and rip oﬀ my helmet.
The sound is unreal. Indescribable. Like an animal
caught in a blender. Except it’s thousands of us in here.
Horses shattering men as they kick in their death throes.
Riders crushed underneath or thrown clean, to be
swallowed by my men. Horses whinnying in the plaza,
terriﬁed at the sight.
For all we killed, more than two hundred sunbloods
wheel about in the swirling mass of bodies, their riders

slashing down, the horses stomping on the unlucky fallen,
or breaking through the lines to encircle my other elements
even as their infantry advances through the plaza to pound
more meat into the straw.
The world takes on a slow, soupy feel. Only a fraction of
my force is Gold and Obsidian. Without armor, without
technology, the vast gulf that separates the races becomes
measured in the carnage an individual Gold can wreak
against lesser creatures. Their skin is tougher. Their bones
and thick skulls like armor. I see one of my Grays hit a Gold
thrown from his horse full on in the back of the head with
his riﬂe, only for the Gold to wheel around and with a
single punch break the neck of a man who survived ten
years of war. Two Reds ﬁre full clips into a Gold in a
prisoner jumpsuit. He closes in and kills them before
stumbling on to kill four more before ﬁnally expiring.
In my pocket of peace amidst the battle, I feel the
coolness of Pax’s key on my chest. The weight of my wife’s
gift in my hand. The memory of all the goodness my men
have inside them. How they laugh over cards. How they
smile when entering a liberated city for the ﬁrst time. How
they hustle when beside a Gold comrade to show they are
his equal. How they weep when they see their families at
the spaceports.
And I watch as they are butchered by the score, and their
conviction that all men are created equal is made into a
mockery by the physical absurdity of the Golds atop their
monsters. There is a glee in their killing. A horrid joy
teaching this chattel, this jabbering mass of uppity slaves,
who their masters are.
Bend. Bow. Break.
I see Lysander amidst the fray, blood-spattered atop that
monstrous horse, youthful and killing with uncommon
grace. His bodyguards mill around him, cutting down any
who rush his ﬂanks. I see it so clearly. All his life before

him. All the worlds on their knees, rejoicing their returned
supplication as they embrace their chains so long as pretty,
manicured hands hold the lead. His rise will summon a
hideous tide of renewed romantic vigor that will not stop
until my people, my wife, my child, are swallowed whole.
And then he will smile from the humble throne war built
and say he is their good shepherd.
I gave him a choice long ago, a chance to live in peace,
but he has returned to war. To see the boy become man
scours the empathy in me.
Ten years too late, he must die.
My snipers no longer ﬁre. Thraxa waits for my signal on
the roof. I shape my razor from its long form to the
slingBlade. The dread monster rises in the belly of me.
Laughter spews from between my teeth. I would die for the
truth that all men are created equal. But in the kingdom of
death, amidst ramparts of bodies and wind all of screams,
there is a king, and his name is not Lune. It is Reaper.
“For the Republic!” I scream as I enter the fray.

***LysanderI have never fought lowcolors hand to hand.

I annihilate them.
Faces and arms and skulls scalped by the teeth of
sunbloods swirl around me like so much grotesque confetti.
Weapons spark oﬀ my greaves. Men fall over themselves to
avoid the teeth of my steed only to be trampled by his
hooves. It is all frenzied blur, which I approach with
systematic detachment.
I would fear losing track of the battle in the strict focus
of the Mind’s Eye. So I ﬂoat along the edges of its shores.
Breathe, stab, turn. Breathe, stab, turn.
Rhone and the Praetorians swirl around Kalindora and
me. Our force is irresistible. Kalindora an animating spirit
atop her mount. The ranks of the enemy are shattered, but
their will is not. It was Kalindora who introduced me to the
term Blood Red for the battle frenzy of the Red clansmen. I
believe I see it now.

They refuse to yield the boulevard. They heave their
bodies against it, forming bulwarks of the dead and living.
They slash at our horses’ bellies. Or ﬁre down from
rooftops, but when our attention bears down on them for a
single moment, they become mincemeat.
My rooftop elements will be pressing forward. My
infantry advances at a run through the plaza to support our
charge. Soon the enemy will be routed, and we will sweep
south to run down their support legions and force those at
the spaceport and Mound to surrender.
As I try to free my horse from a tangle of bodies, I spot a
Red sniper taking aim from a window above. Rhone ﬁres
over my shoulder, nailing three rounds into the sniper’s
center mass. More snipers provide cover for us from the
rubble of the Water Gardens.
“Where is he?” I shout to Rhone. My Praetorians cluster
around me, hacking and shooting anyone who comes near.
“He knew I’d expect him on Triumphia.” Without Darrow in
captivity, my victory will be incomplete.
Rhone’s ﬂinty eyes search the milling mob. From the
horses, we can see nothing but the churn of battle. Then I
spot the signs of his advance from the far side of the
Triumphia. It is like the coming of a tiger through tall
grass. First a rippling in the distance that seems like the
wind. Then a tunneling force. An outward swaying of
riders. The starting of horses. Men disappear from saddles.
Sunbloods collapse sideways with horrible wounds. And
then, like the tiger’s tail, the curved slingBlade rises above
the stalks as he threshes all in his path.
He kills with impossible aggression.
I will not repeat past mistakes and rush to meet him.
“Rhone! Bring him down!” I shout. The Praetorians
follow my blade and shoulder their riﬂes as they stand in
the stirrups. Tracer rounds scream into the mob as Darrow

disappears behind a horse. Then a raw-throated cry roars
up from Darrow’s men.
“Red Rain! Red Rain!”
I look up just as the stars are obscured by shadows. Reds
rain from the sky. They ﬂing themselves oﬀ the rooftops
that line the Via Triumphia and fall three stories to land
amongst us. Our ﬁreteam becomes chaos. I slash upward at
a shadow, dividing it in two. Not an arm’s length away, a
Praetorian gurgles and jerks his arms as a Red man lands
on the saddle behind him and saws through his throat. He
throws the knife at me. I backhand it away and I stab my
razor through the Praetorian into the Red.
A man crashes into me, holding on to my side by the lip
of my breastplate. His knife ﬂashes at my face. I duck my
head. The knife stabs several times into the crown of my
skull but fails to break the bone. I bring my razor into his
gut and open his right side. He spills oﬀ just as gore squirts
into my face as a woman comes down with a block of
masonry atop the head of a Praetorian.
Kalindora cuts her clean in half and then looks over my
head with wide eyes. “Tele—”
An immense force lands on me.
Whatever it is, it is heavy enough to make Blood of
Empire reel sideways. I’m ﬂung from my saddle. As I stand,
a blur comes at my head from the side. I twist away and a
tremendous impact lifts me clean oﬀ my knees and throws
me through a window into an apartment atrium.
I slide across the ﬂoor until the marble stairway jars me
to a halt.
The wind is knocked from me. I gasp for air, and when I
sit up, I am shocked to ﬁnd that my spine is not broken. A
dent the circumference of a grapefruit has been made in
the side of my breastplate. By the time I stumble to my feet,

the doorknob is turning. A hulking shadow steps into the
atrium carrying a huge warhammer.
I don’t even have to look at her face. “Telemanus.”
I bring my razor up with both hands over my head in
Aja’s favorite form for Obsidians. Bough Splitter. It is an
easy transition into the Branch Which Cannot Snap, the
maneuver that killed Ragnar Volarus.
“You killed a pup,” she growls. “Let’s see you handle
me.” She rushes forward, bellowing her family’s name.
Without the weight of armor, I’d be faster than that
hammer, and might be induced to accept her invitation. But
she is stronger, more experienced, and better designed for
close-quarters brutality. I could pick her apart, but one
loose stone, one slip of the foot, and she’d maul me to
death.
I make it a running engagement and bolt up the stairs.
“Little bitch,” she screams as she pursues.
At the top of the stairwell, I kick through an apartment
door and wait for her thundering steps to come up the
stairs. When she reaches the landing, I plunge the razor
through the wall. It meets the resistance of armor, and
pushes through. She roars in surprise. The razor comes
back bloody. Her warhammer chases it through the wall.
But I’m already in ﬂight. I run through the apartment,
past a shrieking Silver as Thraxa trundles after me. I push
a bookshelf down to block her. She shatters through it as I
dive through a window back down to the melee on the
street. I land on my feet.
“TELEMANUS!”
The window frame shatters as her broad shoulders knock
it free of the plaster. And from the debris jumps a demigod
and her hammer.
Rhone leans backward from his saddle and ﬁres a burst
at Thraxa as she passes overhead. Three bullets impact in a

triangle shape under her armpit, punching through the
armor into her rib cage. She lands just as I dive between
the legs of a horse. Her huge hammer crumples the rider
and breaks the horse almost clean in half. She teeters over
the screaming animal like a weary blacksmith. I thrust my
razor over the dying horse at Thraxa’s heart.
She catches the blade ﬂat between her huge gauntlets
and manages to divert it into her belly. She reels me in by
pulling the blade deeper. Her mouth opens in a mad laugh
and she lunges to bite oﬀ my nose.
Then a horse hits us and we go sprawling over corpses. I
manage to keep ahold of my razor. By the time I ﬁnd Thraxa
limping to her feet, two Reds drop from a fourth-story
ledge to drag her toward a horse.
Rhone jumps from his own to stand over me with
Praetorians. They’re in a panic, hauling at me, screaming to
get behind them as they shoot. Then I see why.
Darrow bulldozes toward me.
His army in tatters around him, he breaks through
behind a wedge of three armored Obsidians. Rhone’s men
shoot the Obsidians. But they stumble into the line and
Darrow explodes out from behind them. His razor passes
through a man’s teeth and jaw. He looks left, then
disappears in a blur.
He threw his body back just as Kalindora galloped past
on her horse. Still, he’s clipped hard enough to spin like a
top. But as he falls, his Red acrobatics shine. No one falls
like the Reaper.
His whip snakes out and snaps hold of the back fetlock of
Kalindora’s horse. He’s ripped down the boulevard before
the Grays can shoot him. The horse tramples through a wall
of men and clears the other side. Then it goes down.
Kalindora disappears. Through the mill of bodies, I see her
gain her feet as Darrow charges her. Their blades spark in

an incredible display of fatigued swordsmanship. And then
she falls. He hacks down at her four times before turning
back to me.
A roar comes from behind me.
Back where Triumphia meets the plaza. The infantry
pour in and the spirit that anchored the Rising soldiers to
this plot of land ﬁnally shatters. In a weird, instantaneous
snap, their dogged last stand morphs into mindless
hysteria. They ﬂee through the back alleys and down the
Triumphia, ﬂowing past Darrow, who stands there watching
me. Many drop their weapons or discard their armor to run
faster. As happens in all retreats, men are shot through the
back, cleaved down from behind, losing far more with their
backs turned than when they stood their ground.
It is a rout.
A trio of horses speeds through the broken army. Thraxa
slumps in one saddle. One of the Reds who dragged her to
safety holds the reins of the third horse as the other sits
backward and ﬁres with his riﬂe. Two shots whiz past my
head close enough to ﬂay open the skin of my scalp.
Darrow mounts one of the horses as they pass. He looks
back at me as my infantry pours through the plaza down
the boulevard, and kicks his horse away.
I rush to Kalindora as my men push forward. A Gold says
something braggadocious to me, and I shove past him to
ﬁnd her crawling toward a lamppost so as not to be
trampled underfoot. She leaks blood from a long gash down
her left side. Her remaining arm is hacked to several
pieces. She tries to say something to me. I call for medici.
Several Praetorians rush my way to help stanch the
bleeding.
I look down the dark boulevard after Darrow. “Let him…
run,” Kalindora says. “You’re no…equal.”

I grip a Praetorian. They all have ﬁeld medical training.
“Keep her alive.”
I grab Kalindora’s loyalist razor from the ground and
sprint back to Blood of Empire and jump into his saddle to
pursue. Rhone shouts after me, but I know if I let Darrow
slip through my ﬁngers, he will disappear into the city like
smoke.
The Praetorians try to keep up, but Blood outpaces their
tired steeds. Buildings whip past. Retreating men scatter.
Mobs with torches cheer. Then I catch sight of the trio
galloping south on a quiet stretch of the Via Triumphia just
past the Bank of Heliopolis.
“Reaper!” He does not turn. “Slave!” Somehow through
the clatter of hooves, he hears me and wheels his horse
around. Thraxa reaches for him and misses. Her horse
carries her past. Covered in gore, his slingBlade held at his
right side, he looks a devil atop the blood-frothed steed.
Darrow brings his slingBlade around to point at me. Drawn
by my shout, shadowed faces ﬁll the windows that line the
street.
With a groaning howl, Darrow accepts my challenge. He
kicks his horse’s ﬂanks. It springs forward. Blood of Empire
needs no encouraging. He sees a horse that is less than
him, and surges to meet the challenger.
For a moment there is nothing in the world but my
enemy and me and the bobbing of the starlit street and the
cacophony of horse hooves on stone. It forms a tunnel of
concentrated destiny.
I bring my borrowed razor up like a lance in my left
hand. In the mill of battle, I am not his equal. Nor am I in
the dueling ring. But aristocrats have always held a
monopoly on horsemanship.
Darrow jerks on his reins, angling to his left as if to pass
on my right. Predictable. I anticipate he will swerve to my

left at the last moment and toss his slingBlade to the other
hand to turn my lance and decapitate me with a passing
backhand. Or he’ll crash our horses together to maim us
both.
But he does not see that I brought Kalindora’s razor as
well as Alexandar’s. I clutch Kalindora’s out of sight behind
Blood’s neck instead of the reins. I steer with my knees as
Atalantia taught me to as a boy. As I saw my father ride
when I was not even as tall as his knees.
At ten meters, just as Darrow swerves to my left, I
swerve right and take my shot. I ﬂick Kalindora’s razor in
an underhand toss. It carries forward and disappears into
Darrow’s chest. Just as the horses draw even, I swing
Alexandar’s razor with my left arm, digging my toes into
the stirrups and driving with my legs to meet his slingBlade
as we pass.
Metal cracks.
The world upturns.
My arm goes numb. The razor shatters and ﬂies out of
my grip. My head slams against the ground as I skid across
the street. I stumble up and fall, concussed. The world tips
back and forth as I pick up the hilt of my shattered razor
and look for Darrow. Somehow, impossibly, he was not
unseated. He slumps from his horse, Kalindora’s razor
protruding through his chest and out his back.
Praetorians are galloping toward him down the street.
His left arm ﬂops unnaturally at his side as he pulls the
horse around and kicks it down an alley to disappear into
the city.
Rhone and the Praetorians rein the horses in as they
reach me. A dozen set oﬀ after Darrow.
“My liege, are you wounded?” Rhone cries. I stare after
Darrow.

“He got him through the chest,” a Praetorian says.
“Razor straight through the heart.”
“He’s dead. He has to be.”
“It was his lung,” I say.
“My liege, are you prime?”
I only just realize my teeth are chattering. Needles of
pain shoot up my left arm. Beneath the armor, the bones
must be shattered from the force of the collision. But lying
between the hooves of the Praetorians’ horses is a bloodsmeared object. I pick it up with my good hand and hold it
close to see it better as the street ﬁlls with my advancing
army.
It is the hilt of Darrow’s slingBlade, and its killing edge
lies in shattered pieces upon the stone.

***DarrowI’m in a nightmare.

Lysander’s riders hound me through the labyrinth of dark
streets. Searing pain digs deep into my chest. I did not see
the hidden blade until it was inside me. My teeth chatter
together. Each breath froths with blood. I have no weapon.
Only my right arm works. My left is shattered along with
the slingBlade. The gift my wife gave me almost twelve
years ago lies upon the ground to be a trophy for
Lysander’s mantel. One day, he will tell his son how he took
it, as I told Pax of how I took Octavia’s.
The city itself becomes a devil and the prisoners surge
south. Lysander’s sunbloods have broken the other
strongpoints. They trample men in the wide boulevards as
his Golds ﬂow across the roofs. Few escape the nocturnal
predators. His infantry is comprised of all those prisoners
we took in the Battle of the Ladon. Over a million join with
Heliopolitan mobs to butcher survivors in sunless gardens,
underneath the striped awnings of abandoned markets, and

on the steps of old amphitheaters littered with refugee
trash. The Heliopolitans seem to be killing Tychians as well.
I escape back to the Mound only by virtue of the chaos.
My horse’s hooves clomp over cobbles deep with blood.
Ragged survivors from the other strongpoints pour across
the mall toward the steps of our last refuge. There are so
few. There is no way to tell if the sacriﬁce was worth it. If
the quarter hour we bought saved any lives at all. The city
is lost. Lights glimmer in orbit from Atalantia’s arriving
ships. My men are fractured. Did Rhonna make it back to
the Morning Star? It will be a tomb. Those at the ships will
never reach the tunnels. And on foot, how far could they
go? It’s up to Colloway to lead them. But lead them to
what? It’s all ruins, and Atalantia will be coming with real
weapons very soon.
Thraxa and Red Sniper wait for me at the bottom of the
Mound steps. Thraxa looks nearly dead herself. “Did you
get him?” she asks.
“No.”
The strength holding her up evaporates. She slumps in
the saddle and barely manages to follow me up the
Mound’s steps. I dismount inside the atrium, where
Harnassus is organizing the survivors. Legionnaires rush to
help Thraxa down from her horse. It takes four of them.
Harnassus rushes to me, slowing when he sees the razor
sticking through my chest.
“Are you—”
“Screwface,” I demand.
“He hasn’t returned.”
I say nothing.
“They broke through his lines. Only four men have come
back. They say they saw him fall to a Gold.”
“They were going wild trying to get him,” a man adds.
“They were Fulminata.”

Fulminata. The legion in which he embedded himself at
my command.
I hang my head, dazed from my wounds and exhaustion. I
don’t know if I can move another muscle. My hamstrings
and lower back are cramping so bad I have to have men
help me out of my armor. I almost pass out as they take the
vambrace oﬀ my shattered arm. They leave the breastplate
on, for fear of disturbing the razor in my chest.
There’s a commotion as they take oﬀ my dead boots. I
stand barefoot in blood to see men stumbling in carrying
Screwface. A shout goes up when the men see him pass.
He’s missing his right leg from the knee down, and the skin
above his hairline. He’s been scalped by a Fulminata
Obsidian. As the medici tie oﬀ the wound, Screw stares at
the murals on the ceiling of the antechamber and moans.
His eyes are wild and distant. “I’m sorry. I’m sorry,” he
murmurs. “We tried to hold. We did. They had horses. It
was a bloodydamn cavalry charge. Mowed us down like
wheat. They’ll catch the support. Some of them. Horses!
Horses!”
“He’s in shock,” one of the medici says and then sees the
razor in my chest. “Sir…”
“No time. It’s just a lung.”
Screwface grabs my good arm. “Clown. Pebble. Are they
safe?”
“Aye,” I say. “They’re safe. They’re with Sevro.”
“If anyone could make it out, it’s that ugly bastard.”
I whisper to the medicus, “Will he live?”
“Hopefully not,” Thraxa says. She’s slumped on the
statue’s pedestal as Reds help her out of her armor. She’s
bleeding badly from the hole Lysander and his men put in
her belly. “It’s over. Here. Back home. No shame in it. We
gave it a rugged shot.” Her hammer is gone. Her reserve
razor sits in her lap. “But I won’t be tortured by that

creature. Atalantia will vivisect us. There’s only one
honorable end to this.”
I walk over and take her razor.
“It is not over,” I snap. Several hundred weary faces look
at me. “It is not over!” I shout to them. “If you can ﬁght,
assemble at center.” The few able-bodied men assemble.
“Darrow.” Thraxa reaches out her hand for her blade.
“I’ll die my way. You die yours.”
For loyalty to the end, it is the least I can do. I give the
razor back.
Tired beyond words, I arrange the able bodies with what
remains of our guns to constitute a defense for the Mound.
As if it will matter when Atalantia comes. A hand settles on
my shoulder as I send snipers to the gallery. I wheel around
to kill the man, but ﬁnd Harnassus standing there,
shrunken and tired, arms caked to the elbow in blood from
the wounded. “Darrow. Enough. There’s nothing more to
do.”
I say nothing because I know he is right.
One of the Red snipers I sent after Lune joins us, a nasty
wound on the side of his head. “Might be able to get you
out underground, sir.” Alone amongst my men, he seems to
think there’s still hope. I disabuse him of it.
“The tunnel entrances are collapsed. The ships are dead.
There’s nowhere to go.” Hearing a noise, I look back to
Harnassus. “Did you hear that?”
“What?”
“A ship engine.”
“Where are you going? Darrow!”
It takes me a full two minutes to climb the stairs to the
Mound’s tower. I throw up halfway to the top. The sick is
dark with blood. My limbs are cold and trembling. The
razor in my chest hurts so bad it’s all I can do to focus on
breathing as I look out over the city. There is nothing to see

in the darkness. No lights break the spell Lysander has
summoned. Only the soft, ocean-like sounds of screams. No
lights illuminate the sea. No ships over the water. It was my
imagination. A phantom hope. Harnassus mutters a curse
for his aching joints as he joins me, breathing heavily.
“I’m sorry,” he says after a moment.
I say nothing.
“Glirastes did something to the EMP. Built in a back door.
We should have seen it. We should have stopped it. I told
you we could. I thought we could keep up with him…” I
look over at him at the very moment where the stalwart
commander breaks. It is a single shudder, one that comes
from the hidden, substantial depths of the man, and reveals
for just a moment the insecure child within as he realizes
what he always suspected is true: he treads in waters far
too deep.
All this time, I shied from his disapproval. In the absence
of Dancer, he became my father ﬁgure, in a way. I didn’t
even know it until now, because there is nothing like seeing
a father shudder. And then he buries the child and is
Harnassus again, Hero of the Vox, scowling leader of men.
“You know the curse of this world?” I ask, looking at the
body the Carver made for me. “The greatest gifts were
given to the worst of us.”
“Not realizing they are gifts is what makes them the
worst,” he replies as the ﬁrst of Lysander’s legions begin to
ﬁll the mall below. My men die as they scramble up the
steps, as if there were any safety inside with us. “You know
I envied you.” I look over at him. “Why him? I asked. Why
did Ares choose an arrogant pisspot miner and not me? It
was pettiness. Pettiness that made the Vox. Pettiness that
brought us to this. But your wife believed in the Republic,
didn’t she?”
I nod.

“You didn’t. I saw you lose faith one step at a time.
Looking to solve it all yourself. That’s why I stood in your
way. I thought this was what you wanted. A glorious end.
Now that it’s here…” He searches my eyes. “If not for the
Republic, if not for a hero’s end, why…why keep going?”
Sometimes a simple question wakes a sleeping answer.
“I had this picture in my head where I would wake beside
Virginia. I’d let her sleep and rise to make coﬀee,
breakfast. And when they woke, my wife and son would ﬁnd
me reading at the kitchen table, or maybe making
something out back.”
“That’s it?” he says.
“That’s it.”
He bellows a laugh.
As insult, the sky begins to glow. Individual friction
ﬂames from descending starShells coalesce into a
throbbing furnace of light. “Well…I imagine one of those
friction trails is Atalantia or Ajax. They’ll want us alive.” He
nods. “I won’t risk being taken in a last charge. It will smell
like cloves and melting rubber as the celtex comes in. We’ll
pass out. Then we’ll wake up in hell.”
The reﬂected light from the friction trails carves across
Harnassus’s eyes. “I’ll be damned if I let this be the last
thing I see. You shouldn’t either.” He pauses. “I don’t think
any of my men will be taken prisoner. It would mean
something to them if you were with them in the end.” When
I do not reply, he goes back down the stairs.
“Harnassus.” He pauses and turns. “Thank you.”
“For what?”
“Being my conscience.” I smile at him. “My wife says I
sometimes need that. I know it isn’t an easy role.”
“But what a role.” He laughs before he departs. “What a
role.”

I stand alone in the tower watching the friction trails
glow over the city, and wonder if this was not inevitable. If
all our hope was nothing more than a feeble religion that
could not stand the test of time. I sigh onto the railing and
work my good hand through my hair. A tinkle comes from
inside my armor. I pull my son’s key from within and look
down at it and feel an ache. How can something so small
mean so much? Even now, when I know I will never see my
boy again, I feel as if he were here with me. As if my wife
were by my side in these last moments. The world was too
cruel to them. I was too cruel, in my own way. But there
was beauty. For a moment, there was real beauty.
I look down at the lost city and feel small comfort.
I kept looking for hope in the world. Expecting the world
to supply deliverance if I plucked the right chords.
Demanding that it supply validation to my labor if I just
gave enough eﬀort. But that is not the nature of the world.
Its nature is to consume. In time, it will consume us all, and
the spheres will spin until they too are consumed when our
sun dies.
Maybe that is the point of it. Knowing that though one
day darkness will cover all, at least your eyes were open to
see moments of light.
I pry open my thigh pack and pull out a canister. I pour
Dago’s Lykos soil into my hands. I would have liked to see
home once more before the end.
There is a gust of air behind me.
“Oh gods. Brooding again? Some things never change,” a
voice says.
I turn to see a vision from the past. “Cassius?”
“Hello, goodman. Kavax said you might need a hand.”

***LysanderThe streets run red with blood and echo with screams.

Darrow’s army is in full rout. Mechanized soldiers from
Atalantia’s orbital forces leave vapor contrails in the air.
Along the Bay of Sirens there is a great slaughter as men
ﬂee the city on foot or swim out into the bay only to be
microwaved by dropships buzzing over the water.
TorchShips descend on the dark spaceport. And in the
courtyard before the Mound of Votum, thousands upon
thousands of freed prisoners of war and mechanized
legionnaires fresh to the fray congregate.
I watch after Kalindora as she is lifted away by Ash
Legion medici. The wounds Darrow left her with are
gruesome, but not beyond the ability of the trauma wards
to mend. She will survive. But I feel a sense of guilt for how
I left her there to chase Darrow. I could no more have
stopped the bleeding than the Praetorians I left her with,
but leave her I did, and there is little nobility in that. There
is little nobility to any of this.

There is a thump behind me. Rhone’s hand drifts to his
riﬂe. I turn to see Ajax landing with a cadre of Ash Guard.
The irony of his leopard helmet slithering back into its
collar when his own Iron Leopards ﬂow past, bloody and
triumphant, my name on their lips, is lost to no one. Least
of all the insecure boy inside the dreaded man.
He abandoned his men before the storm wall of
Heliopolis.
Only to ﬁnd me here, alive.
Devilish in ﬁfty kilograms of advanced armor and
weapons, he looks up as I sit tattered and ﬁlthy upon Blood
of Empire as the courtyard swarms with ragged
legionnaires and hi-tech soldiers. He takes in my melted
face, the steed, the chanting of his own Leopards.
Whatever he planned to say is concealed within the tight
formality: “Salve, Lysander.”
But it is hate in his eyes. As if I did all this to mock and
spite him and steal his place in Atalantia’s bed. For a ﬂicker
of a moment, he considers whether gunning me down
before the army may be worth the cost in the long run, but
the arrival of the Votum Peerless stays his hand.
I salute his rank. “Praetor Grimmus, the enemy is split
into four groups. The most numerous gather within the
Morning Star, where Atlas au Raa is being held. I
recommend sending a party immediately before they
execute him, if they have not already. The next most
numerous have taken to the mountains, where they have
constructed tunnels. Others hide within the city and
sewers. But Darrow is in the Mound. He is grievously
wounded.”
“By whose hand?” Ajax asks.
“Mine.” I pull Darrow’s hilt from my saddle and toss it to
him. He blinks, unable to comprehend. The oﬀicers around
him mirror his disquiet.

“How?” Ajax asks.
I lean forward. “Which part?”
“Who are you, boy?” a Falthe Praetor demands.
“He is the blood of Silenius,” Cicero says from behind
him. The Votum heir is alive and covered with grime from
his exploits in the prison break. He stalks up surrounded by
a dozen soldiers in tattered prison regalia. His sister is at
his side with a ﬂock of glittering knights. As Atalantia’s
legions take their city, they see another play at hand.
“The heir returned from the maw of chaos,” Cicero says.
His knights stiﬀen to attention and salute me. “Hail Lune!”
The hate in Ajax’s eyes darkens and he shouts for his
Peerless to assemble. They form a glittering knot and make
for the Mound.
“They’re trying to seize your glory, Lune,” Cicero says.
“Shall we join them?”
I look at the dangerous knights around Ajax, likely
friends of those I killed in the desert. In the chaos, it would
be only too easy for one to slash my spine as they ﬂew past.
“I think not.”
Four hundred Peerless Scarred of the Votum and Ash
Legions move on the Mound. I sit with my Praetorians in
the middle of the square as the doors evaporate.
Rhone sulks beside me, ignoring the sweet wine throngs
of Heliopolitans bring the soldiers. A party one-half
celebration, one-half slaughter rages through the city as it
seeks catharsis on the invaders after the long weeks of
siege. I imagine the wine will ﬂow alongside the blood for
many days yet.
“Something wrong, Legate?” I ask.
“You should be the one to take the Slave King.”
The soldiers ﬂood into the Mound.

“We have had our glory today, Praetorian. Let us not
drown ourselves in gluttony. The legions know who opened
the gates,” I say loud enough for the other Praetorians to
hear. They tip their cups of wine and pass burners through
the ranks. One thousand Gray shock troopers came to me
in the desert. Barely three hundred remain. Not one is
unwounded.
There is a sudden ﬂurry of ﬁring in the Mound. I had no
doubt Darrow would make a last stand. But with the
introduction of advanced weapons to the battle, it is a
certain aﬀair. One knight kitted by our age is worth a
thousand on horse. Perhaps more.
I run my hands along the hilt of his broken blade and feel
confused by what it elicits. He threw me down in the
desert. I broke him here. But neither was a true test
against the other. The fate of each battle was decided
before we met. Mine by the broken chaos of the Rain. His
by a series of calamities which put him in a corner. I did not
beat the Reaper. I simply hit him when he was down. I hold
no illusions of martial supremacy, my victory was against a
broken host and a bedraggled man. The legends of our age
die one by one, like autumn leaves; and when they are
gone, will we be lesser for their absence?
It seems cheap.
With his death imminent, the worlds feel emptier. Almost
as cavernous as they did when Cassius fell. One by one, the
titans of my youth disappear, and freed from their shadow, I
do not feel liberated. I feel bereft.
Nothing is permanent. No one escapes.
“The bill comes at the end,” I whisper.
Rhone asks what I said, but I grow distracted when
gunﬁre crackles on the Mound. Something has happened. I
frown and stand up. The milling ranks in the courtyard
point upward as ripWings dive from the sky.

Bwaaaowwww.
We take cover. The light is tremendous as a particle
beam sheaves through the legs of the god Helios, who
towers over the Mound. With a groan, he teeters over and
crashes down into the sea. By Jove…How does Darrow have
electronics? Anything within the city was fried. Unless we
weren’t the only ones to have reinforcements.
Sure enough, Gold knights tear from the Mound in
pursuit of a lean, battered ship that emerges from the
debris. It rockets low over the ranks of soldiers ﬁlling the
courtyard.
I know that ship.
A knight ﬁlls the open garage bay. It is not Darrow. His
armor is brilliant white. His helmet like that of a rising sun.
It retracts to reveal his face, and for a moment our eyes
meet.
Cassius…
The door closes. The Archimedes ripples translucent
from a cloaking device far more advanced than any
technology she possessed when I called her home. She
ruptures the air with a sonic boom and races toward the
sky, pursued by the Ash Legions.
Diomedes lied. Cassius is alive. And Darrow has slipped
the noose.
My true heart is laid bare, awash with exultation,
clouded with confusion, pure with purpose. The war goes
on.

***LyriaMars in a rose garden between
Victra’s ancestral home and the sea. Across the water, the
Julii city of Hippolyte splashes out into the emerald
archipelagos. Victra stands just across the grave from me,
but looks as distant as her city. She wears only green. I like
it far better than mourning black. It reminds me of the
emerald hills they say wait for us in the Vale.
I wish I could take away her pain, but all I can do is stand
here and watch her suﬀer behind that stony face. I know
the teeth of this pain wound not with their sharp bite, but
with their slow grinding. Her fearsome daughter bends
over the grave, whispers something to her brother, and
then stands protectively at her mother’s side. She knows
best. There are no words to soothe the wounded heart of a
Julii.
Only ﬁve attend the funeral. The two Julii, the Reaper’s
son, Volga, and me. Our retinue feels pitifully small next to
LYSSES IS BURIED ON

the void his loss has carved. And still I cannot help but feel
I do not belong.
After Ephraim came, Victra and I went to the ﬁshing
village to retrieve her son’s body from Maeve’s house.
Victra washed him herself in Attica, but refused to bury him
there. “He’ll sleep at home,” was all she said to me before
boarding her ship.
“And now you sleep,” Victra whispers to the grave, and
then turns away to walk to the coast. Pax moves to follow.
Electra grabs him and he stops to watch Victra’s shoulders
shake as she wades into the water and swims out to sea
toward the setting sun.
When she is almost out of sight, Electra jerks her head
for us to follow her down to the coast. We help her make a
ﬁre from a pile of driftwood. Everything inside feels very
still as Volga and I sit beside the children in the sand. As
soon as the sun is gone, Electra speaks.
“I am equal parts of my father and mother. But we Julii
have a tradition. If family blood spills by your debt, you
swim to the sun. You may look back when it is gone. If no
light appears onshore to welcome you home, you swim on.”
She’s quiet for a moment. “Some never turn to look back.”
Though Volga weeps soundlessly beside me for Ulysses,
in a way she buries two today. She still has not forgiven Pax
for asking Ephraim to go back to Seﬁ. She waited at the
landing pads for twelve hours before somehow duping the
Julii guards and stealing a ship. I tried to follow, but Victra
herself intervened.
—
Julii military and aid ships were the ﬁrst to descend on
Olympia three days later when Fá and the Obsidians left it
in a heap of rubble and corpses. Even my camp’s
destruction couldn’t prepare me for Olympia. I’ve never

seen so many crows or wild dogs before in all my life. I
thought the stench was more than I could bear, but then we
found Volga sitting on the steps of the high city, cradling
Ephraim. She tried holding him together, but his body fell
apart when she stood up. I will never forget the look on her
face. It has chiseled away the stone of my heart, leaving a
wound of empathy I haven’t the ken to mend.
There were no witnesses to tell us what happened to that
doomed city save a mad Obsidian with both his eyes
gouged out. We found him at the base of a throne swatting
at the crows that came too close to a body covered with a
cape. Pax and Electra knew the mad Obsidian, and the body
he protected.
He somehow ﬂed the Sol Guard who were to take him
back to a medical shuttle, and disappeared into the dead
city, never to be found. Pax couldn’t say who killed
Ephraim, but we know who killed Seﬁ and sacked the city.
The same monster who attacked the Pandora.
Volsung Fá.
The name is like a curse to us. A curse that deepens the
more Pax explains just what his control of the Obsidians
might mean for Mars. What city will they sack next? Could
the Republic survive the man who took down Julii, Seﬁ,
Valdir, and the Valkyrie in just two weeks?
I fear Volga’s name will soon be added to that list.
She wants revenge for Ephraim. It will bring her nothing
but more heartache. Though my vengeance on Harmony is
sated, I feel no more whole. What peace will I ﬁnd if even
that cannot mend me?
I did not like Ephraim but he was like a father to Volga. I
saw how she looked at Victra. The slow smiles when Victra
would ﬁre a particularly clever insult her way. Her eyes
focus on the dark water as she prays under her breath to
the Allmother for Victra to return. She loves far too easily.

But her prayers are answered.
Six hours after Victra set out, she returns. Her dress was
lost in the sea. Her legs fail her as she stumbles up the
beach like a scarred ghost and sits amongst us by the ﬁre.
She ignores Pax’s oﬀer of his cloak and sits naked until
ﬁnally taking Electra’s riding cape. When her teeth stop
their chattering, she looks around at us.
“One bill is paid. Debts are due.” She looks at Electra
and Pax. “I swore a life oath to both of you the ﬁrst time I
saw you. I renew that oath here and now.” Her eyes ﬂick to
me and Volga. “To you two, I swear it for the ﬁrst time. Let
your enemies be my enemies. Let your errors be my errors.
Let your life be my life. I do not tell lies. If ever you call,
House Barca will answer.”
“Me too, for you,” Volga says.
“I agree,” I say.
Pax leans forward. “Technically you’re to say, ‘You are
never in my debt,’ and she will say—” Electra hits him in
the side of the head. He shuts his gob.
“What will you do now?” I ask Victra. “Go to your
daughters?” She still hasn’t said where they are.
“No, I will go to war,” she replies. “The Pandora may be
taken, but the rest of my ﬂeet is intact. Luna has my
husband. Mercury my friend. And then I will vanquish the
woman who sought my family’s demise.”
“Atalantia,” Electra murmurs in solidarity.
“My brothers are on Mercury,” I say.
“You require a ride?” Victra asks.
“No. I’m going to Earth with Volga.” Volga looks over in
surprise. It hasn’t been discussed, but I know where she
wants to bury him. “Ephraim wouldn’t want you getting
killed going after them that did him.”
“Say his name,” she says.

“You don’t know who did it.”
“Say his name.”
“Fá,” Electra answers for me.
“Ephraim wouldn’t want you dyin’ on his accord,” I say.
“You know that. I’m gonna go ﬁnd my nephew, and you’re
gonna bury Ephraim in South Paciﬁca like you said he’d
want.” She does not reply. “Victra, I’ll need a ship.”
“Can you ﬂy?” Victra asks skeptically.
I look at Volga. “I hope so.”
—
In the morning Volga and I load the coﬀin containing
Ephraim’s remains onto a Julii racing ship that Victra has
given us for the journey. Victra watches Volga secure the
coﬀin inside. “It isn’t proper,” Victra says. “Keeping her
from her revenge when you have had your own.”
“Haven’t you seen enough of that?” I ask.
“Not while Atalantia breathes. Not while Fá breathes.
They cost me my son.”
“You wanna lose the rest of your children?”
Her eyes swivel down to me, and in a second I’m
reminded of who she is, and who I am. “Careful, Blister.”
This woman owns cities and ﬂeets, but I let her alone out
of respect for her loss more than fear of all her legions’ and
ships’ might. When it came down to it, she was just a
mother on her own.
A Sol Guard rushes up to Victra and whispers something
I can’t hear. She frowns. “Let them in.”
“All of them?”
“It’s the Reaper’s gorydamn brother. What do you think?”
Five minutes later, ten Republic shuttles crowd the
landing pad, and the ArchGovernor of Mars walks out. Not

Rollo. Somehow in all this mess, the Vox put him down in a
ﬁreﬁght in the Citadel. Instead it is now Kieran O’Lykos.
You wouldn’t even think he was the same species as his
brother. He’s barely bigger than I am. And his is the kind of
face meant for laughter and Laureltide dances. But he ain’t
laughing as he strides toward Victra with two hundred
Sons of Ares at his back. He looks like he’s gonna puke.
The Sol Guard nod in respect to their allies.
I haven’t seen that spiked helmet painted on armor in
years. It really does chill the blood. The ArchGovernor
greets Victra with a hug and casts a look at Volga before
swooping Pax and Electra up—as much as he can, them
being as big as he is. He garlands them with kisses, and
then turns back to Victra with a somber look.
“Is there someplace we could speak in private?” he asks.
She motions him to the shoreline. The two groups of
soldiers chat across the lines as Victra and the
ArchGovernor walk along the water. Pax watches intently.
“What are they saying?” Volga asks.
“My hearing isn’t that good,” he replies.
“Nor your judgment,” she says point-blank. Pax looks up
at her and is about to say something when she turns her
back on him. Only eleven years old, and already sending
men to their deaths. If Volga thought it didn’t weigh him
down, she’d be dead wrong. He is in agony.
Ephraim must’ve gotten under his skin.
He was good at that, wasn’t he?
There’s a shout from Victra at something the
ArchGovernor says. She wheels away from him and stalks
back to us. “Volga, get in the ship,” she says. Her guards
look as confused as Volga. The ArchGovernor catches up.
“It is this or another Olympia,” he calls.
“Since when do we kneel to monsters?” Victra snaps,
stalking back toward the tiny man. “Since when do we

abandon our own?” She jams a thumb against her chest. “I
am Victra au Barca. I do not sacriﬁce my friends.”
The Reaper’s brother does not back down. “Heliopolis
has fallen.” My heart sinks. My brothers…But he’s not
done. “The Free Legions were slaughtered to a man. More
than two million were impaled. My brother is dead.”
His brother.
It’s like watching wind move meadow grass. Grown
men’s knees buckle across the landing pad. The Sons of
Ares did not know. The Sol Guard did not know. Victra did
not know. He hadn’t told her yet. She looks as if she is
dying as she glances at Pax. The boy watches with a
tremble in his hands. Whatever anger Victra had when she
stormed away from the ArchGovernor crumples.
I feel something break inside myself. I don’t know what it
is. I long ago gave my brothers up for dead. It’s for the
Reaper, this emptiness. I guess I held some weird belief he
couldn’t die. Some thought that as long as he lived, the
Society could never come back.
But now it all seems possible. The Reaper is dead.
And they have killed something in all of us.
“By noon, all of Mars will know,” the ArchGovernor says.
“Victra, my brother is dead. I know Virginia told you she
sent a man. He’s been dark since he got to Mercury.
Whatever happened, there were no survivors. And the Heir
of Silenius has returned.” Victra stiﬀens. “Atalantia will sail
on Luna. If the Vox don’t see reason…Earth won’t be able
to hold. It will just be Mars that’s left. We can’t aﬀord to
ﬁght the Obsidians with what’s coming. You know that.”
Something goes unspoken between them. Something they
can’t let us know. “Old debts are coming due.”
Victra turns to look at Volga. “I swore an oath to her.”
Volga looks around in confusion.

“What you lookin’ at her for?” I snap. “What’s going on?
Victra?”
“You tell her, if you can stomach it,” Victra says to the
ArchGovernor.
The man looks tired, but his voice is almost soothing.
“After Volsung Fá left Olympia with more than half its
citizens in chains, he sent a deputation to us. He claims to
be the father of Ragnar Volarus.” Pax ﬂinches. The
ArchGovernor looks Volga sadly in the eye. “And he pledged
no further acts of violence toward the Republic, and oﬀered
to give us the survivors of his massacre and depart
Mars….”
“Depart Mars? For what price?” I demand.
“His granddaughter,” Victra says. Volga does not move a
muscle.
I look back and forth between them. “Slag oﬀ.”
Volga’s mouth moves up and down. “But…”
“You were born in a Grimmus slave kennel,” Victra says.
“You are the product of a dead Terran gladiator named
Wrothga and a man I fought beside. You are the daughter
of Ragnar Volarus. And if this Fá is telling the truth, you are
his only living heir. Just as you were Seﬁ’s.”
“What?” Electra whispers. Pax closes his eyes in thought.
They open just as Volga whispers.
“No…” She looks at the shocked soldiers ﬁrst, as if they
will save her or something, and then to her own hands. “I
am a freelancer.” She looks up. “Did Ephraim…”
“No,” Pax says. “He didn’t know.” I think he’s lying.
I step in front of her, wishing I had a pistol.
“Get on the shuttle, Volga.”
She doesn’t move. She looks at Victra for guidance. “Get
on the shuttle. They won’t ﬁre through me,” Victra says.

“You’re a freelancer, Volga,” the ArchGovernor calls. “So
let me put a price on it. If you go to Fá, he leaves this
planet and you save millions of lives. We may beat him if
you refuse, but when Gold comes after that, Mars will fall
in a day. Volga, my brother is gone. We need heroes.”
That does it.
Volga straightens to her full height. I try to push her
toward the shuttle, but she settles me with one hand.
“Lyria,” she says. “Lyria. Promise me you will take Ephraim
to South Paciﬁca, and that you will ﬁnd your family.”
“Don’t do this.”
“I am not a slave. It is my choice.”
“You can’t. You don’t—”
“Ephraim would,” she says. “He did not raise me to be a
bad woman. But he did not raise me to be good, either. Fá
will bring me close, and he will pay for his evil.” She smiles
down at me. “Thank you for helping me. I have never had a
friend so small be so big.” She kisses me on the forehead
and steps forward.
—
I watch from a tower on Victra’s estate as the Obsidian
ships disappear into the evening sky. They are said to be
bound for the asteroid belt, but who can be certain? Pax
joins me from below. I’m too disgusted with his Republic to
look at him. Mars rose up for us against the Red Hand.
Gamma rose up. At just the moment when I was beginning
to believe in people, they sent Volga to hell.
“I remember the ﬁrst time we met,” Pax says after a
while. “I was presumptuous and wounded you. I would like
to ask your forgiveness, because I’ve done it again.” He
waits for me to turn. I don’t.
“What did you do?”

“Victra came to me and asked some rather peculiar
questions. Innocently, of course. What she asked, however,
led me to believe you may have a…parasite…So, I hacked
and read the doctors’ reports on your physical.”
“Your father just died, and you’re going through my
physical? What? Never seen a pair of tits before?”
He goes quiet. “I recently learned my mother has come
back to life.”
I glance at him. “The Sovereign’s alive?”
He nods. “She’s coming here and has ordered the
Republic to summon its strength to Mars. So I believe I
should be very industrious until she arrives. Especially in
matters as curious as this.”
“If you read the report, you know.” I knock on my head.
“Poor thing went and broke on me. Done’s done. Her
people can’t ﬁgure anything, and don’t know how to extract
it without killing me. Still got the orb, though, and that’s
mine.”
“Why would you want it extracted when all it wants is to
be repaired?” he asks. “Isn’t it giving you instructions?”
I don’t answer. Even now, I feel the urges of the parasite.
They heightened near the city. Maybe it’s the
communication towers. I feel an emotional ache to return
home to someplace I’ve never been. But I know that’s not
me talking, because I don’t have a home, and the feeling
seems to be coming from a great distance. Then Pax says
something I didn’t include on the report.
“O my mountain hyacinth, what shepherds trod upon you
with clumsy, rustic foot? Now you are a broken seal: a
scarlet stain upon the earth. Figmentum es.”
I blink at him. “How did you—”
“So I was right.” He smiles to himself. “I read everything
and cross-reference latently. Including ﬁles only ten people
have access to. My mother wanted me to be prepared, and

I think I know how to help you. Her spymaster had…
relevant information. Wouldn’t you like to be someone who
could make a diﬀerence, Lyria of Lagalos?” He looks up
after the Obsidian ﬂeet.
“Did Victra send you?”
“No. She wants to protect you from what you could be.
But she only knows that Figment inherited the parasite,
and gained…advantages from it. She has no idea what it
really is, or where it comes from.”
“And you do?”
“I have my suspicions.”
I don’t take the bait. “My brothers were in Heliopolis.
Liam’s the only family I have left.”
“Family is more than just blood.”
I look up after the ships. I helped those girls save
themselves. I helped Victra. I helped Volga. The little man
is right. I do want to make a diﬀerence.
“What if I told you that I could ﬁnd Liam easier than you
could, without leaving a computer? Would you do
something for me?”
I squint at him. “Be more speciﬁc.”
He pulls out a thin holoMap of the inner asteroid belt and
hands it to me. “Have you ever heard of a city called
Oculus?”

***LysanderI stand looking out at Heliopolis from the Lady Beatrice.

Cassius is alive. I do not know how, or why. But somehow
he survived the Rim’s perversion of justice. Diomedes must
have had a hand in it. Was it for honor that he was spared?
Or some nefarious purpose I cannot yet divine? I would ask
the man, but he departed Mercury to prepare the Rim’s
entrance into the war long before Heliopolis’s liberation.
Pytha told me he searched the Ladon for ten days for his
sister before departing with a heavy heart.
There is a war inside me. I would have given nearly
anything to bring Cassius back from death. Anything except
this. He died for the Rising. Now he ﬁghts with them.
He is my enemy. I cannot come to terms with it.
I believe I am the only one who knows Cassius’s hand in
the ﬁasco at the Mound. If Atalantia found out, the
ramiﬁcations for me, for the Rim, would be calamitous.
Whatever pact Cassius made with the Rising earned the
Archimedes a boon. Her new engines were faster than any

the Core ships possessed. Her hull cloaked even more
thoroughly than Atalantia’s hunting corvettes. I sense
Quicksilver’s hand at work. Because of my old friend,
Darrow, Harnassus, Telemanus, and the core of the
Howlers managed to either hide on Mercury or slip out of
its orbit.
Their army was not so fortunate.
Those who survived the Long Night, as they now call it,
languish in camps south of the spaceport, pressed into
labor to rebuild the planet they helped break. After seeing
the ruins of Tyche and northern Helios, I know it will be no
short aﬀair.
Today is the ﬁrst day since recapturing Heliopolis that
the city does not rattle with sounds of construction. The
cranes are quiet in the city sky today, but the streets
bubble with noise. Rooftops along the Via Triumphia writhe
with color and jubilation. Mercury has turned out for my
Triumph.
“Are you there?” I ask the air. “Apollonius?”
No one replies.
“Whomever are you talking to?” Glirastes crows from the
doorway.
“Just phantoms.” Did he ever really exist in the desert?
Did he follow me, or was it the imaginings of a sun-leached
brain?
“You look as if you were bound for your own funeral,”
Glirastes says. My old friend sways up behind me to look
out at the city.
“It may yet be.”
“Oh, please.”
“Do you have it?” He hands me the Dux pendant I had
made for Rhone. “I am told there are crescents painted
upon every street corner from the Hippodrome to the
spaceport. You go too far.”

Glirastes shrugs. Today he wears silver and white, the
colors of my house. On his neck is a gold chain with a great
pendant of an eye with a ruby iris. The Eye of the Society,
the greatest award any civilian can receive. Octavia gave it
to him long ago at the unveiling of the Water Colossus of
Tyche.
Though Atalantia has not executed him as a traitor yet,
neither has she gifted him with a pardon.
“You’re projecting frustration, dear boy. Desist. I am the
artist. If it is to be a diva duel, I’ll match you cry for cry and
then piss on your pillow and blame it on my dead ocelot,
and you’ll wonder if I’m insane, and I’ll cackle, because yes.
Yes, I am. And I can get away with anything.”
“Atalantia still may kill you,” I say. “Don’t forget.”
“If I were a betting man…”
“Which you are.”
“Then I would wager all on the proposition that my head
is more secure than yours, young Lune. After all, I am the
best kind of hero—harmless. And you are the worst—young
with a name.”
I sigh and lean on the railing with him. “I suppose I did
ask for theatrics.”
“Yes, dear boy. And right now they’re the only thing
keeping you alive.” That, and the furor for the Heir
Returned that sweeps through Mercury and the legions.
I really don’t mind it much at all, but I fear
Grandmother’s wisdom. Will Atalantia break me if she
thinks I eclipse her in the mirror?
Ajax already tried. With my polite imprisonment in the
Lady Beatrice, and Atalantia spurning my requests for an
audience, I fear he is pouring poison in his aunt’s ear. She
will think I did this for my own glory, to supplant her. Did I?
Glirastes searches my face. “Kalindora was asking for
you.”

“I know.”
“She said it was important.”
I say nothing. Kalindora’s wounds were mended by the
medici, but not the poison Darrow’s blade slipped into her
bloodstream. She is dying. And I do not think I could do
what I must were I to look her in the eye before the
Triumph.
“Do you love her?” Glirastes asks.
I look at him. I left her on the ground to chase Darrow.
What a hideous thing to do. “I never had the chance, but I
believe I would.”
“Then I will ﬁnd a cure.”
“You’re not a medicus.”
“No, but I am a genius.”
Heavy boots clomp the tile. Rhone stands in the entry. I
am appalled by his armor. It is as black as the space
between stars. Purple bands cover the joints, and on the
chest plate is a silver crescent moon inside the pyramid of
the Society. “Dominus, the shuttle has arrived.”
“Where did you get that uniform?” I ask. Rhone looks
suddenly embarrassed.
“Their old gear is on Venus,” Glirastes explains. “I had
new uniforms made in Naran and shipped here for the
occasion.”
“You have to stop. The provocation…”
“Exists regardless of the accoutrement. I know. I know.
You are not the Sovereign, nor do you campaign to be. But
you are the last blood of Silenius. If Atalantia wants to kill
you, she must kill your destiny before the eyes of the
worlds.”
—

Atlas au Raa waits at the Grimmus shuttle eyeing the
ceremonial dress of my guards. It is a product of chance
that he survived the Long Night. When the power died, his
cell went into lockdown. I hear the queue to kill him was a
thousand men deep. How he must have smiled at them as
they beat at the doors. Rhone says it took the man’s
Gorgons four hours to drill into the cell to free him.
He looks peculiar groomed and without his desert gear.
His Fear Knight ceremonial armor is bone white and
perversely etched with screaming children. Unlike most, he
does not hide his true vocation behind gilded heraldic
symbols. Yet there’s an anxiousness to him here in
civilization which I did not see in the desert, a sort of
alienation from the very thing he sought to protect.
“Aren’t you minorly overqualiﬁed for an escort?” I ask.
He eyes the Praetorians. “Aren’t they minorly
overdressed?”
“For a funeral?” I ask.
“Kalindora has several days yet,” he says without
pleasure. It says something about Kalindora that even a
man like Atlas would look at his toes considering her death.
“I know the poison. It is favored by the skuggi. Slow but
thorough.”
“We both know I wasn’t speaking of Kalindora.”
He eyes me with amusement. “Well, Lune, I suppose that
depends entirely upon you.”
Our shuttle arrives at the staging area outside the storm
wall of Heliopolis. The triumphal arch that was
commissioned in haste by Glirastes stands before the open
gates. It is the most heterogenous gathering of any
Triumph I can remember. Glirastes’s servants mill together,
gawping at the spectacle as they share cups of wine and
receive instructions from the Copper planners. Hundreds of
the loyalists who answered my call and risked their lives to

save their city are here. Most are midColor, though many
low are amongst them. I could not have designed a better
message to the people gathered here. You saved your city.
You walk with me. Behind them, sprawling out into the
desert, are the hundreds of thousands of soldiers captured
in Ajax’s failed assault on Heliopolis. Their line snakes four
kilometers long. Gold, Gray, Obsidian, and Blue drink down
spirits passed out by Reds and Browns. Together they sing
the ancient hymn Battlecry of the Lightbringer.
If only Aja could see this. If only my parents could.
A buzz goes through the assembly as I walk to my place
at the honored fore with Glirastes and Rhone. The drunkest
of the loyalists shout my name or begin to applaud. A
Copper actarius bustles over to me with a huge datapad
and a gaggle of assistants. She greets me with alacrity and
guides me to my chariot. “It is made of the ﬁnest Mercurian
onyx, dominus. A gift from the Dictator herself. It is
incredibly light compared to most triumphal chariots, and
with four of the Dictator’s bucephelon geldings to pull, your
charioteer will be—” I raise a hand. She stops midsentence.
“Of course she favors geldings,” Rhone whispers.
I hide a smile.
“You expect a self-respecting Lunese Gold to ride in onyx
like a Venusian sprite?” Glirastes replies. “Au Lune has
brought his own chariot.” Several Praetorians wheel it
forward from one of Glirastes’s shuttles.
“But the color coordination!” the actarius squeals before
my Praetorians guide her away. Rhone stays to oversee the
sunbloods’ transfer to the white chariot Glirastes had made
specially for the event.
Pytha watches me from amidst Glirastes’s servants. They
lower their heads as I approach. My friend held me in her
arms for three whole minutes when Atalantia’s men

delivered her to the estate. She tilts down her eye shades
at me.
“My liege,” she says with a bow. Since I told her Cassius
was alive, she has been distant, spending most of her time
in Glirastes’s gardens. “I’ve decided I’ll be sticking
around.”
I’m stunned. It is not what I expected. “May I ask why?”
“You need me more than the old boy does.” Her eyes dart
about at the sycophants watching us. “Be a shame to see
you survive the desert only to die in your sleep.” She jerks
her head. “Now get. The worlds await you, my liege.”
I return to the chariot to see the horses ready to go.
Rhone pats Blood of Empire on the neck and begs a word
before I mount. His eyes focus on my chest. “I merely
wanted to say, formally…We failed your family. More than
once. I…I never thought I would see the Praetorian Guard
reclaim its honor, my liege. I never thought I could reclaim
my own. But you gave us the opportunity.” His eyes ﬁnd
mine. “We will not fail you.”
There’s equal parts pride and humility in this man. I wish
he knew for a single moment how high the legions hold him
in esteem, but if he were capable of knowing, he would not
be Rhone ti Flavinius. I worry for him, for what awaits at
the end of this Triumph. I have seen how easily lives are
spent.
I do not wish to spend him or the three hundred who
survived the Ladon.
I put a hand on his shoulder. “I believe for some reason
that our fates are entwined, Flavinius. I will need you today,
tomorrow, and all the days after. Within my household, I
grant you the title of Dux.”
He blinks at me.
“Dux, my liege?”

“Are you ﬁt for the task?” A Dux is an appointed right
hand with unlimited imperium within a house. His word is
my word. It is usually, but not always, reserved for Golds
like Aja, who was my grandmother’s Dux. It will honor him
as he should be honored, and at the same time show the
Grays of the legions how I reward loyalty.
I have the sneaking suspicion that as go the Grays, so go
the legions. After all, they do outnumber my race a
thousand to one. As Glirastes would say: “Never pass up
the opportunity to shore up your foundation.”
I pull the warrant of Dux from my pocket. He lifts his
head and I seal the metal to his forehead. The skin burns as
the hawk and crescent moon meld with his ﬂesh and bone.
He salutes with tears in his eyes and mounts his horse to
follow my chariot.
I join Atlas on the chariot. He rides as my daggershadow,
a place of honor, and trust. Two things he has not earned in
my eyes. But Kalindora is too sick to stand where she
ought. “He’s a good man, Flavinius,” he drawls. “Be a
shame to waste him.”
“Is that a warning?” I ask.
“Advice, rather.” He glances at Glirastes on the horse
next to Rhone’s. “It seems you heed the wrong men.”
“I know how to handle Atalantia.”
“That would make you the ﬁrst.”
I lean past Atlas and press a DNA scanner on the side of
the chariot. There’s a thrum as the reinforced pulseShield
ﬂickers into place, distorting the world around, and
encasing the entirety of the passenger compartment with
enough shielding to take a direct hit from a pilum missile.
Atlas chuckles. “A promising start.”
—

Trumpets signal the beginning of the Triumph. A blind
White girl walks ahead of my chariot with a ﬂaming torch.
With an old White guiding her, she ﬁnds her way to the
crimson curtain that hides us from the crowd. She pushes
the torch into the wool. Flames lick upward. When they
have consumed all but the topmost remnants of the curtain,
my charioteer snaps the reins and the chariot rolls forward.
We are swallowed by noise. A street cleared of rubble
bisects a sea of humanity for four kilometers until the
street bends to the right. Millions roar on the ground, on
the rooftops. Trumpets blast. Bells clatter on horses. The
sound washes over me as we ride forward. An honor guard
lines the parade route. Not Votum or Ash Legions.
I feel the chill of the past.
The Praetorians have returned. Thousands of purple-andblack-clad men and women stand with their riﬂes
shouldered. I glance back at Rhone. He smiles and bellows.
“Praetorians!”
“Ad lucem!”
“Lune!”
“INVICTUS!”
They have returned from their disbandment by the
thousands.
The Fear Knight’s voice is barely a whisper. “Poor choice,
young man. Poor choice.”
I miss the desert. It was simpler there.
The route is twelve kilometers long, exactly the length of
Silenius’s ﬁrst Triumph on the Via Triumphia from
Hyperion to the Citadel. After ten minutes, I am exhausted
from sensory overload. Flowers cascade, children rush
from the crowd to bedeck the honored with ﬂoral wreaths
of mountain ﬂowers. The Battlecry of the Lightbringer
echoes through the city. Verse after drunken verse. Military
ships hover with snipers to cover the rooftops for signs of

terrorists or agitators. Despite the best eﬀorts of Society
forces to round up all the enemy at the spaceport, it’s
inevitable that thousands more will have melted into the
city.
A Triumph in this climate is as good as a death sentence.
And we all remember Darrow’s fated day. But how could I
refuse Atalantia?
Of course, there are snipers. Shots slam into the
pulseShield over us, and send response teams swarming
over rooftops. I almost pity the shooters. With each shot, I
wonder if it is Darrow’s men or Atalantia’s or someone
else’s. Who knows?
The procession carries through the heart of the city and
comes to a halt at the Mound of Votum. The statue of
Helios still lies fallow in the sea.
High upon the steps of the great palace, Atalantia waits,
surrounded by the Two Hundred heads of the prominent
remaining houses. The brooding Falthe killers, vile
Asmodeus au Carthii, and Cicero au Votum are all there.
The Carthii tap their feet in resentment, as if they have
better things to do. The Votum beam at me. I saved their
city from extermination. And now they see a chance to
escape from under Atalantia’s thumb.
“Remember you are but a mortal,” Atlas whispers into
my ear.
I hop down from the chariot. “As are we all.”
He frowns as I ascend the steps toward Atalantia. Ajax
looms behind her amongst her oﬀicers and Olympic
Knights.
She smiles in lovely fashion.
Behind that smile is so much malice. She wonders, just
as the crowd and the Praetorians and the soldiers wonder,
when we come face-to-face, will I kneel?

When I reach the top of the stairs, the crowd goes silent.
Atalantia is in pure white. Her shoulder spikes are gold, her
necklace that dreadful pet Hypatia, and two ornate
gauntlets of gold cover either hand. Her gold razor is at her
side, but I know she looks at the broken slingBlade I wear
on my right hip. It is the envy of all the legions.
“Darling, I do believe you took me far too literally,” she
says with a sexual sigh as she looks at the left half of my
face. “I said earn a scar, not become one.”
“I left room for one more.”
“From boy to man, and all it took was a little friction,”
she replies. “If I knew it was that easy, I could have made a
man of you myself.” She winks and draws her razor. “Shall
we make it formal?”
I can practically hear the tension coiling in the parade
behind me. I expected my stomach to ravel into knots, but I
feel impossibly calm. “All men are not created equal.” She
draws the razor along the right side of my cheekbone,
cutting deeper than necessary to give me my Peerless scar.
“So you have proven.” She does not return her razor to her
hip, but watches my blood run along its edge. Ajax stares a
hole through my head from amongst her oﬀicers.
“Look how they fawn over you,” she whispers of the
crowd. “Ten years you abandon them, and now they drool
like inebriated sheep. Disgusting.” She tilts her head at me.
“It’s funny, isn’t it? How some questions continue to be
asked even though they’ve been answered in every age. My
favorite is one you’re probably dwelling on right now. Is it
better to be feared or loved?”
“We both know the answer to that.”
Her teeth ﬂash as she glances at Atlas several steps
beneath me. “Don’t we just?”
“I imagine it will be a sniper?” I ask.

“Oh, you did not fence half so well as a child. It’s a
dreadful Red pulled from the depths of their unholy horde.
I thought about doing it myself,” she replies. “But we’ve
seen the value of martyrs, haven’t we? And to think, the
heir had returned, only for his head to disappear with the
ﬂash of a distant muzzle.” She leans forward. “Good thing
he has others to carry the ﬂame in his name.”
“And it will come when I put on the laurel,” I say.
She coos. “Aren’t you just the most precocious of
creatures. Yet you came anyway.”
“Could I have refused?”
“No, not really.”
“There is an alternative to nepoticide,” I say.
“No, I don’t think there is, and you’re not technically my
nephew anyway.”
I glance at Ajax. “From what I hear, the position is
taken.”
She laughs at my boldness. “I wished you no ill. But Ajax
did what he did for me. Because he guards my heart’s
delight. You see, I will sit on the Morning Chair. I will
become Sovereign. I will establish an empire. First there
was Lune. Then there was Grimmus. Much as I love you,
darling, my destiny will not be denied, not by those sneaky
Moonies, not by Darrow or his piglet wife, not by you. But
by all means, beg.”
“I’d rather not.”
“Then shall we proceed with your assassination?”
She motions for the White. I hold up a hand for her to
stop. The crowd whispers behind us. The legions shift
anxiously. Ajax can barely wait another moment for my
blood.
With a smile made especially for Atalantia, I bend a knee.
Ajax stiﬀens, and takes a half step forward before

remembering how many watch. “All this, I did for you,” I
say, playing to her vanity.
Atalantia laughs. “Oh Jove, it is begging, then.” She looks
away. “How vile.”
“All this, I did for you,” I repeat. Her eyes become
interested. This ﬁts her understanding of the world. “When
you looked at me on the Annihilo, you saw the boy who
used to run with Ajax through the Palatine. All I’ve wanted
since my return is to be a man in your eyes.” Her suspicion
heightens. “I don’t want to be the Sovereign,” I say with all
honesty. “I have no desire for it. No claim on it. It was
never meant to be hereditary. It was meant to go to the
strongest. And if I tried to take it from you, it would tear
Gold apart.”
Her gold gauntlets clink together. “You apart, at any
rate.”
“I did not beat Darrow. You did. I just pushed the blade
home.” I glance at the Gold families behind her, ignoring
Ajax. “The carrion birds circle us both. They seek division
between us because it feeds their own delusions of
ascendance. We must show them unity.”
Her eyes narrow. “What are you proposing?”
“That Grimmus and Lune become indivisible, once and
for all.”
Her lips curl into a wary smile. She doesn’t even glance
back at Ajax. “Formally?”
“You are feared, I am loved, what better marriage could
one hope for?” I ask. To save Heliopolis, I had to undermine
her. To undermine her, I made an enemy of her and
validated her suspicions and the poison Ajax and the
Carthii have likely been putting in her ear. I do not love her
as my parents loved each other, but duty outweighs my
heart.

This is why I could not look Kalindora in the eye. I knew I
would remember how she brought me the Praetorians in
the desert. How she helped me when my face was a
tattered ruin. But as she left me to the storm to save
herself, so I must leave her behind.
“Two can be a very awkward number,” Atalantia says
carefully.
“Not so long as all know who kneels.”
“What a matchmaker you’ve become. Rim and Core.
Lune and Grimmus.” She ponders the idea. “When the old
milkbat sets the crown on your head, don’t take my hand.”
That’s my answer, and her signal to whatever sniper
lurks in the buildings. Whether it is death or life, I will not
know until it has happened.
There are cheers of relief as we turn together toward the
crowd, but the cheers are far too premature. Neither Ajax
nor Atlas know what has happened, but down below, Rhone
and Glirastes wait for the answer.
The White steps forward, her dark face as ancient as her
tattered robes. Milky eyes watch me with inhuman
distance. Her hands hold a green laurel crown. My heart
thuds in my chest, forcing my vision into a tunnel.
“Son of Luna.” I barely hear her voice for the blood in my
ears. “Today you wear purple, as did the Etruscan kings of
old. You join them in history. You join the men who broke
the Empire of the Rising Sun. The women who dashed the
Atlantic Alliance into the sea. You are a Conqueror. Accept
this laurel as our proclamation of your glory.”
She sets the laurel on my head. Atalantia smiles beside
me. I lift my right hand, open as is the way, to grip invisible
destiny. Atalantia does not seize it.
“Per Aspera…” I say.
“…ad Astra!” roars the human sea of Heliopolis.

No bullet ﬁnds me. “Celebrate, my love,” Atalantia
whispers. “For you have lived before death. In the immortal
words of Plautus: ‘Let us celebrate the occasion with wine
and sweet words.’ ”
The Triumph festivities extend well into the evening. The
sound of rooftop parties and the debauched celebrations of
the Core Golds within the Mound itself lap at me as I stand
with a cup of wine atop the stairs and watch the Brown and
Red crews sweep the ﬂowers from the Via Triumphia.
I smell roses as Atalantia joins me from behind. Her gold
gauntlet squeezes my shoulder. “Bored of the sycophants
already, my love?” she asks. On her neck, Hypatia stirs to
eye me before returning to her slumber. My Gray
Praetorians in the shadows watch her Obsidian Ash Guard
with their hands on their riﬂes.
We have not yet shared news of our pending union.
Considering how much wine Ajax has downed, it would be
violent timing. “As a boy, I always wondered how you put up
with them,” I say.
“And as a man?”
“I wonder how you put up with them.”
“You would do wise to make friends. Many have spent
their years climbing the ladders to heights upon which they
might share wine with a man like the Heir of Silenius. If
you spurn them, they will hate you.”
“Let them hate me, provided they respect my conduct.”
“I want to show you something.” She extends a hand. I
glance at my Praetorians. “I’ve held your life in my palm
before. I haven’t squeezed yet.” She smiles innocently.
“Don’t you trust me, my love?”
I nod to my guards. “Tell Rhone to enjoy himself. I am
with the Dictator.”
Atalantia’s shuttle ﬂies us over the desert. As we ascend,
I catch sight of two lines of impaled bodies that lead out of

the city and into the desert.
“Reds and Golds,” Atalantia says. “It stretches to the sea
they stirred. The others can work, or join the line.”
To react would be to lose respect in her eyes. To
contradict would be to make her doubt my acceptance of
her supremacy. So I remain silent.
Her shuttle takes us to the Annihilo. The Triumph has
spread to its halls. Soldiers toast one another in mess halls,
and give proclamations that soon the legion eagles will ﬂy
over Luna again. Atalantia leads me along by my hand.
Her meditation chamber has changed since my arrival.
Gone is the garden, replaced by sleek black walls and a
white ﬂoor. The mural of our family still hangs on the wall.
The viewport looks down on drowned Tyche. The waters
have receded, but the city is in ruins. Only the Water
Colossus stands equal to its former glory.
Atalantia brings me before the viewport. “This is our
victory,” she says. “Three days from now, I would like for
you to break ground and lead the restoration of Tyche
personally. Glirastes will be your Master Maker. You will
not want for funds. I intend to deliver most of your
inheritance from my own coﬀers.” Her largesse surprises
me. “All the worlds will see that what the Slave King
destroys, the Heir of Silenius will rebuild greater than
before.”
I examine her face for some sign of deception and ﬁnd
none. Just a deep, feline satisfaction. “Why?” I ask.
“Because my husband must be loved.” She turns her
body to me.
Her gold gauntlet strokes my burn and slides to cup my
head. Her eyes ﬂutter. Her tongue wets her lips as she pulls
my mouth to hers. Her teeth glide along my bottom lip,
nipping tenderly. She pulls back, sees something in my eyes
to her satisfaction and then crushes my mouth against hers

in hunger. Her tongue probes mine, and the heat of her
body presses against me as a gauntlet strokes my groin. My
blood quickens in guilt. I feel light and heavy as my hands
explore the taut muscles of her back, sliding down and
down, and down.
I pull away. “Ajax will—”
“Ajax is a puppy.” She puts a ﬁnger to my lips as I try to
protest. “On your back, love.” I ﬁnd myself obeying,
watching in lust as she removes her jacket and clothes till
she wears nothing but the snake and the gold gauntlets.
She cuts oﬀ my pants with a small blade that emerges from
a ﬁnger of the gauntlets. She takes me in her mouth, and I
shudder in pleasure as she crawls up my body to put me
inside her. She gives a little gasp, her mouth hovering just
above mine, and then a devilish smile grows on her lips as
she begins to grind back and forth between the drowned
city and the mural of our dead family.

***LysanderGlirastes has given Kalindora a villa by the sea in which

to die. If any doubted the honor of the Love Knight, one
need only look at the quantity and worth of those friends
who gathered to see her once more before she passes from
this world. Despite the Triumph, the air is somber. I have
felt dirty since I awoke with Atalantia. But not too dirty to
reject her morning advances.
Kalindora’s room is littered with tokens of aﬀection,
including two golden gauntlets from Atalantia. The same
gauntlets she wore when we had sex in her meditation
room just hours before. A patio ambles down to the
waterline, where blue crabs skitter in the surf. It smells not
at all like death.
Kalindora lies on a humble bed. There are no servants in
the room, nor any sign of the immense wealth she inherited
as the last eligible member of House San. She looks up at
me with a wan smile as she sees the ﬂowers I’ve brought.
“Where did you ﬁnd haemanthus?” she whispers.

“Glirastes knew of a hothouse in Naran that carried
them,” I say, wondering if, even after showering, I still
smell of Atalantia.
“Of course you remembered.” I hold them close so she
can smell them. “Like home,” she says with closed eyes.
“Put them by the bed for me.” She nods to the door. “Are
they all still swarming?”
“About a hundred or so,” I say of the well-wishers in the
courtyard. “There’s some good ones in there. Rhone came.”
“I saw him. You gave him the Dux.”
“Yes.”
“No one deserves it more. He will guard you well. I only
wish I did not have to leave.” She looks so weak. Her
remaining arm is wrapped in bandages. After Darrow’s
savagery, it is a wonder she did not lose it. His poison has
leeched the color from her face. She is so pale. To
remember her in the Palatine—young and so full of promise
—and to see her now…it is almost too much. She was the
future. Now she will be the past. It isn’t right that she dies
and all the sycophants and monsters get to live. “Don’t look
at me like that,” she says.
“Like what?”
Her face tightens. “I should say congratulations on your
betrothal, I think.”
“It is a political aﬀair, nothing more.”
“You think so?” She knows. I feel wicked looking down at
her. I should have left the Triumph. Come here instead. Her
eyelashes ﬂutter in pain as a spasm racks the left side of
her face. A bit of drool works its way down her chin. I dab
it oﬀ with my cloak. “Has Ajax called you out?”
“Not yet.”
“He will.”
“He won’t risk Atalantia’s displeasure.”

“He will. Love may give one wings, but everything burns
when it ﬂies too close to the sun.” She looks down at the
sheets that cover her dying body. “It’s funny. You always
promise yourself you won’t become a cliché. You won’t be
the person who yammers about their school years with old
friends, trying to relive the glory. Then you do. You won’t be
the soldier who doesn’t bother learning the names of the
fresh troops because they won’t be there tomorrow. Then
you are. You won’t give last-breath confessions, then you
must.” Her smile disappears. “Sit down.”
I take the stool at her bedside.
“There are things you must know.” She looks at the door
and takes a small jammer from under her sheets. Her
ﬁngers suﬀer nerve damage and fumble with the controls,
so I must help her. The noise outside the room disappears,
and the sound of the sea can be heard no more.
“I have known Atalantia all my life,” she says slowly. “I’ve
seen her as a courtier, and a soldier. She has always had…
something missing. She was here before you.” She looks at
the gauntlets. “Despite what I did—bringing the
Praetorians for you—she held my hand and confessed that
she believes you’re her missing piece.”
For a moment, I don’t think she’ll continue. Then, with a
sigh, she forges on.
“Those were the happiest days for her, you know. When
Octavia would let you alone from your lessons and Atalantia
would take you to Hyperion. She does love you…in her way.
She thought you were the saddest little boy. We all did.”
She touches my knee. “Don’t take it as a slight. You saw too
much to ever truly be a child. You never had a chance to be
one, not really, and neither did she. Octavia was hard on
her. She was hard on us all.” She coughs and blood ﬂecks
her lips. She waits as I wipe it away. “She was like a
poison.”

I’ve never heard her utter so much as a single word
against my grandmother.
“Octavia was a hard woman, but she made us what we
are.”
“She poisoned us.”
“She was our Sovereign.”
“Sovereign.” She spits the word. “All my life I’ve served.
Octavia, then Magnus, then Atalantia. Everyone sits on that
stool and tells me I did it with such honor. And every time I
hear it, I want to tear their tongues out.”
She looks out at the sunlight as if it were the enemy.
“If you regret you are evil, it is still evil. I’ve killed old
men in their beds. Children under the feet of their own
horses, mothers who begged me to spare their unborn. All
because I was a stupid girl who thought her father looked
beautiful in his armor. When he retired, I begged to take
his oath to my Sovereign. He wept that day. I never knew
why till after he died.
“I thought his oath gave him purpose. He was too
honorable to say it imprisoned him. And the day he found
freedom, he saw his daughter enslaved.” She swallows,
reliving the horrors she’s done in my family’s name. “I only
wanted to be useful.”
I don’t know what to say.
Her voice softens. “ ‘Get them while they’re young,’ she
told Magnus once. ‘Get them while they’re young, then
you’ve got them forever.’ Honor, duty: it’s all a lie. By the
time you know better, you’re too dirty to get out. Octavia
poisoned me. She made me fear to be alone so much that I
believed only the darkness would want me.” Her hand
trembles upward to touch my face. “Somehow she didn’t
poison you.”
Her ﬁngers feel right against my cheek. Not electric like
Atalantia’s, not rank with guilt, but like they’ve been

missing all my life. I want them to stay forever. I feel safe
here. Her touch is not maternal, nor is it hungry, but at this
moment, I realize she does not see me as boy any longer,
but as someone who understands the world as she does.
It is already too late.
“You were always good. You still are. They all thought
you were dead, but I didn’t. Say what you will of Virginia,
she wouldn’t let Darrow kill a boy. Sometimes, when I was
in a shuttle and all I could hear were the engines, I would
think of you. I would see you oﬀ somewhere by the sea.
Living a true life, falling in love maybe.” Her ﬁngers leave
my face. “When you stepped onto the Annihilo, it broke my
heart.”
“Why should me coming home break your heart?” I ask.
“This is my family.”
She stares at the door, forgetting me and the sea.
“I have to tell you something. Something that will make
you hate me. Something I know will make you do what has
to be done. But I’m afraid…”
I take her hand and surprise her by kissing it.
“Nothing you can say will make me hate you.”
She swallows. “Your mother…”
I go cold. “What about my mother?”
“She was a Reformer. Did you know that?”
“No…” Did I? Do I?
“No. Of course you didn’t. She…saw what Octavia was.
How her grip was squeezing tighter and tighter till it would
choke our world. She thought the burning of Rhea was an
abomination. And she saw how slowly her mother was
trying to corrupt you. So with Romulus’s father, Revus, and
Nero au Augustus, she planned a coup. Lysander, it wasn’t
Outriders or terrorists who killed your mother. It was
Octavia who gave the order.”

“How do you—”
“Because Atalantia and I planted the bomb on their
shuttle.”
I stare at her, unable to comprehend.
“You and Atalantia.”
“Yes.”
“You…were her closest friends.”
“Yes. Though it broke my heart, I did as my Sovereign
commanded.”
My hand slips away from hers.
The world shrinks to a very small, very quiet place as
memories and all their weight fall upon me. All the times I
sat with my grandmother, dined with her, ﬂew with her,
tried to impress her, and she sat there, the old crone,
pretending she didn’t send my father and my mother
smoldering into the sea. All the times Atalantia took me to
Heliopolis, held my hand at the opera, squeezed me
between her sweating legs…
A dark glass slides over the world.
I will never be the same.
“Why can I not remember my mother’s face?” I ask.
“Do you remember a chair?” I say nothing. “Octavia had
many monstrous machines. But none so cruel as the chair.
She called it Pandemonium. With it, she could…pervert the
mind. When she discovered Anastasia’s treason, she swore
she would erase her from history. She did not succeed in
that. But she did steal her from you. Lysander, after your
mother died, you were inconsolable. She was a good
mother. She loved you more than anything in the worlds.
Octavia grew jealous. After two weeks in the chair, her
work was done, and you didn’t cry anymore.”
I wish I did not believe it, but I do. What else could erase
the face of a mother from the memory of her only son? I

feel myself struggling to breathe. It was not enough to rob
me of my childhood, not enough to rob me of my parents.
She robbed me of the one thing that is mine. The one thing
that no one should ever be able to take away.
“Did Aja know?”
“Know? She nearly broke her oath to Octavia over it.
Atalantia didn’t bat an eye. She is a monster. Yet I swore an
oath to serve Magnus, and when he found he was dying, he
made me swear an oath to her.” Kalindora swallows. “I am
a monster. I know that. I turned my back on the covenants
of the Olympics, on my own heart. But I will not die a
monster. I won’t let her devour you. She cannot sit upon
the Morning Chair. She must not. She would burn the
worlds so long as the ashes kneel.”
I stand, unable to look at Kalindora.
“I wasn’t strong enough to make a stand. But when you
came back…I knew it was time. That is why I called the
Praetorians.” She reaches for my hand. “You are the
Sovereign, the last heir of Silenius, the last hope of Gold,
and you are good. What are the chances? You can repair
what Darrow and Octavia broke. Make all this horror be for
something. Fix what is broken in our people, Lysander. I
know it won’t be easy. And I am sorry I cannot be there to
help you. Keep Rhone and Atlas close. He loved your father
and mother too much for Octavia to ever tell him the truth,
so she sent him to the Kuiper, thinking he would never
return. He will protect you with his life.”
I can’t take any more. I head for the door.
“Do your duty!” she says. “Do your duty or the worlds
will burn.”
I leave the room, a hollow avatar of myself, and ﬁnd
Atalantia smiling at me from amidst the Golds, waiting to
say farewell to the hero. She motions me to come to her,
and I do. I smile and laugh beside my lover, the killer of my

mother, and later that night as I sit across from her at
supper as she gloats over the wreck her creatures have
made of the Republic’s Senate, and Darrow’s heart. We
receive word that Kalindora has died.
We attend the spectacle of her sunburial on the Annihilo.
The honor guard of Praetorians, led by White ceremonial
virgins, carries her casket to a burial gun set in the main
hangar, which ﬁres her toward the sun. Rhone stands at
attention, Atalantia weeps, Atlas does not speak, Ajax
wavers in rage, almost too drunk to stand as he glares at
me with such hatred it is a wonder he does not call me out
then and there as Atalantia gives the benediction with
glassy eyes.
That night, she sends for me.
I have no choice but to go.
I ﬁnd her weeping in her meditation chamber. I console
her, and we stare at the mural of our family, at the blurred
face of my mother, as Atalantia kisses my neck and
whispers in my ear for me to take her pain away and take
her to bed.
When she is done with me, she turns over to sleep, and I
lie there staring at the ceiling feeling dead inside.

***Virginia“Dejah Thoris, this is Phobos command. Your approach

vector is prime. Welcome home, our Sovereign.”
There is a small vault in my heart where certain words
are guarded like fragile artifacts. Family, home, love, son,
husband, brother. My enemies have cracked the vault open,
ransacked it, and defecated on its ﬂoor.
Home. I don’t recognize that word anymore. It has been
violated. I have been violated.
A corner of my heart was always reserved for my twin,
despite all his failings. Now, the existence of Lilath’s
Abomination eats at me. The Abomination has Sevro,
Mercury has fallen, my husband is still missing with
Cassius, and I have ﬂed to Mars. It was the only choice; our
failure to come together until too late robbed us of any
alternatives.
I left Sevro and Clown and Pebble.
I left my husband to die.

It was Cassius Kavax sent for him. The man was found in
his deepspace corvette. The communications equipment
had been destroyed and his ship barely managed to limp
back to Mars. The details of his escape from his Rim
imprisonment are fuzzy at best. But it seems he was spared
from execution by one of Romulus’s sons. He was secluded
in a private estate on Europa to be released when the war
ended. He broke out, and stole his ship back to escape.
After delivering the news to Kavax, he oﬀered his service to
the Republic.
I never thought I’d hear that in all my life.
I watch out the viewport of the Dejah Thoris as forty
nimble corvettes form an honor lotus before our ﬂeet and
head back to the outer picket line. I don’t deserve it. While
Cassius plunged into the heart of the enemy for Darrow
with only a small strike team, I had an armada and I ran
away. It was the right choice. But those are the ones that
age you.
Ahead, the blue ion tails of our honor guard await. Thirty
crimson Ecliptic Guard torchShips guide us toward Mars’s
defensive sphere. First through roving patrols, then a tenthousand-meter gulf followed by thickets of mineﬁelds and
light cannon array, then the hunting grounds for attack
squadrons of destroyers and torchShips, and ﬁnally into the
realm of the apex predators—the defense platforms, the
dreadnoughts and their battle groups.
Mars has rallied for its Sovereign.
“The loyal stand ready, ma’am,” Holiday says from my
shoulder.
“But will they be enough, Nakamura?”
She is not used to hearing doubt in my voice. Nor do I
often allow it to intrude. But I feel a kinship with the
commando that has deepened these last days as our shared
dream crumbles around us. She took the news of Ephraim’s

death stoically, but I know it eats at her. Just as I may be
free from the Abomination’s grasp, but I am yet enslaved
by the work undone, the enemies unvanquished, the friends
unsaved, and the mistakes I made.
Could I have gone for Darrow? Or was the Rim waiting to
close the trap and pin me against the Ash Armada?
As ever, Holiday senses my mood. “Ma’am, I know you’ll
think you were only one hundred meters away. Not gonna
lie. That’ll haunt you sure as a fold against a single comet
bluﬀ. But they taught in the ludus the surest path between
two points ain’t always the shortest.”
I turn on her. “You think there’s a chance we’ll get Sevro
back?”
She gives me a grim smile. “It’s been done before.”
“Victra found my son. I lost her husband. No amount of
calculus will ﬁx that arithmetic.”
“Yet Victra did not sail on Luna. She respected your
orders.” She gives a curt nod out the viewport where
Mars’s moons are coming into sight. I step forward. The
full might of the Julii ﬂeet roves around the pincushion city
moon of Phobos and the battle moon of Deimos. The
Pandora’s comforting mass is sorely missed, but Victra’s
personal ﬂeet is larger even than my own. With her lost
child, and Sevro in captivity, I feared she would run wild.
Instead, her trade armada readies for war.
Light ﬂares on the Julii-Sun Dockyard halo as we pass.
Hundreds of new ships teem with expedited industry as the
workers and automatons race against the doomsday clock.
And then we are past the dockyard, and the planet itself
looms before us.
On Mars, I was born and rode horses at Ishtar. On Mars,
my eldest brother bled to death on the Agean cobbles
before Karnus au Bellona, my mother jumped oﬀ a cliﬀ, my

father and best friend were killed by my twin. On Mars, I
met my husband.
But only my son waits below.
It seems a lifetime ago that Darrow led my father’s Rain
against our planet. I watched the friction trails bloom from
this very bridge. How simple the world seemed then in the
tunnel of youth. Could I have really been only nineteen?
Can it be wrong to feel nostalgic for a day of blood? Or was
it the innocence I miss, before we truly knew what turned
the world?
The melancholy is scored away by wrath as the nightside
of the planet comes into view. Cimmeria is cloaked in
darkness. The Obsidian I allowed to seize the continent in
hopes they would call it home and defend it with their lives
have ravaged it instead. The central cities of Nike,
Phoenicia, and Olympia are dark. I believed in the
Obsidians. I believed in Seﬁ. I was too optimistic. It only
took a single man to topple her reign and unleash her
people.
Now, the Obsidian army and ﬂeet are gone, having
disappeared mysteriously after Kieran gave Volga over to
the father of Ragnar. It seems all this Volsung Fá wanted
was Seﬁ’s army and only half her stores of helium. The rest
they left abandoned in containers on the tarmacs as
casually as if the containers were ﬁlled with surplus dining
utensils.
“What does Mars mean to you, Nakamura?” I ask.
The Terran hesitates. “Hope. And you, my liege?”
“War.” I turn on a heel for the hangar.
—
As pitcrews prepare Pride Two for disembarkation, Kavax
sits on the hangar ﬂoor. He stares out at Mars ﬂoating on

the other side of the pulseField. Sophocles spools in his lap,
watching his master with concern. I set a hand on Kavax’s
shoulder as I approach. He closes his eyes in a moment of
warmth, then looks back at the planet.
“Daxo loved Mars because she never pretended to be a
maiden,” he says.
“ ‘The beautiful scarred,’ he called her,” I reply.
“The beautiful scarred.” Kavax loses himself for a
moment in the echo. “He loved South Paciﬁca, but he was
born here, in Zephyria. Where I was born. When he was as
high as my knee, I took him, as my father once took me,
through the heartwood, and I showed him the tree that
grew from the seed of my father’s heart, and his before
him. I showed him where mine would be planted. Where his
would be planted beside his brother’s.” His voice trails
away. Kavax was not able to recover Daxo’s body. The Vox
cremated the slain senators and mixed them into the
sewers so they could not be collected by their kin and
brought back to Mars. “Pardon me,” he says, collecting
himself, “sometimes the indignity…is more than I can
bear.”
Kavax is no longer the indestructible man who helped
raise me. His decline started with Volga’s grievous wound
to his side, then Thraxa going missing, and ﬁnally Daxo’s
remains ﬂoating through the sewers of a moon Kavax
hated. He despairs he will lose his remaining daughters, his
wife, and his planet. He looks up at me with wet eyes.
“Must it be here?” he asks.
“It must.”
I oﬀer a hand to help him rise.
With a heavy sigh, the weary family man kisses his pet on
the brow, takes my hand, rises, and transforms once more
into my father’s enforcer—the warrior giant of House
Telemanus. Even I feel inclined to shiver. But it is a tragedy

to see any man sacriﬁce his nature for his vocation, much
less a man I love so much. To be what we need, what I
need, he must go to war again. All his life he waited to pass
the reins to his children; now so few are left.
It is not how he thought it would be, but he endures.
He puts an arm around my shoulders. “There is evil in us,
as there is good. But we do not regret our good as we do
our evil. So we know what we are, my daughter. We know
what we are.” His voice fades, his conviction exhausted. So
I pull him closer.
“We know what we are,” I reply.
He hears the certainty in my voice and straightens to his
full height and pulls away. “When your father would return
to Mars, he would run the Iron Circle to prove who owned
the planet.”
“I am not my father.”
“Not in all ways. That’s been proved. But sometimes you
need to show a little fang.”
—
The Iron Circle is an old custom popularized by Silenius. To
prove the depth of his dominion over a planet or moon, he
would ﬂy his shuttle without escort in a ring around it upon
arrival, no matter the political tensions or adversaries at
large on it: take your shot. It was his fucking planet. The
custom has gotten quite a few powerful men killed—
sometimes people just can’t resist tossing a stone at
Goliath—and fell out of practice with most households. To
do it now, in the wake of the violence Mars has seen,
despite the threats at large, is saying no more and no less
to the worlds than “Look how big my cock is.”
With my main shuttle, Pride One, in the hands of the
Abomination, we leave the hangar of the Dejah Thoris in

Pride Two. The war shuttle bucks as it descends through
atmosphere without its escort of ripWings. Niobe’s Fox One
joins us starboard. As we perform the Iron Circle, I sit
rolling my ﬁngers along the rim of my husband’s ring.
Cassius sent it back to him, and Darrow gave it to me. He
gave everything to me he could give. I wish I could let him
know it was enough. Let Cassius have found him. Let me
slide into bed with him one last time. Let me feel his
warmth again.
I need him more now than ever. Mars needs him.
All the ships and gun batteries in the worlds don’t make
Mars seem safe without the Reaper. My oﬀicers in the
cabin do their best not to look nervous as we pass over the
Amazonian Sea toward war-torn Cimmeria to complete the
Circle.
What will I say to my son when I see him? Pax is neither
stupid nor helpless, especially not with Electra at his side.
He would not have woken up every day praying it would
ﬁnally be the day his mother would save him and make
everything right in the world again. No. He would use
game theory. He would work the models in his mind until
he saw the reasons, the permutations, the tectonic plates in
motion. Then he would scheme a way to help me as much
as he could.
I wonder if Pax realizes yet that I raised him to be as
much an ally as a son, and if he understands my guilt over
that? If he knows could he still grasp how losing him was
like losing a limb? How my love for him goes beyond logic,
beyond explanation?
“Virginia…” Kavax whispers at the viewport. “Look.”
I can’t muster the energy. “Either someone shoots at us
or doesn’t,” I say. “The Iron Circle was your idea.”
“Just look.”

Holiday tries to join Kavax at the viewport. When he
won’t move, she takes the next viewport down and shatters
my oﬀicers’ grim mood with a throaty laugh. “Ma’am. You’ll
wanna see this.”
Frowning, I slide open my viewport shade and see a line
of ﬁre racing across the dark landscape east of Nike,
another ﬂaring west of Phoenicia, and yet another
southeast of Olympia itself. To be so visible at this height,
the lines must be nearly a hundred kilometers long.
As I watch, the lines of ﬁre curve into the shape of a
slingBlade.
Mars endures.
—
Despite the recent violence, no surface-ﬁre licks upward at
my ship during its passage around the planet. Even I didn’t
believe we’d complete the Iron Circle without incident. The
mood of the oﬀicers has changed. The holoCans in the back
of the shuttle rumble with beating drums and singing
crowds in cities all across Mars. In my shame, it is not the
response I would have expected. Mars’s zealotry has
always been reserved for my husband and his ﬁrst wife.
Kavax sits by the door, tapping his heels, eager to set foot
on his home soil again. Holiday watches the holos with a
look of love for the planet as it hails Lionheart and the
Republic.
Clouds embrace the shuttle, and when they pull back, we
see the Valles Marineris gashing the world with its
glittering towers and the glowing green parks and forests
that sprawl along the cityscape and crawl up its towering
walls.
Millions of civilians line the rim of the great canyon.
Hundreds of thousands of new recruits pour onto the
grounds outside what was once my Institute but is now the

Pegasus Legion barracks. As we approach Agea, the ground
becomes lost beneath the shifting tides of humanity that
gather in the parks and the courtyards and main avenues.
The Via Triumphia is as clogged as it was on Mars’s ﬁrst
Liberation Day. They are all holding something red above
their heads.
My shuttle sets down between the Republic’s Victory
Obelisks that lead to the Lion Stairs. The sounds of the sea
of humanity that ﬁll the courtyard wash against the shuttle.
I see now what they hold above their heads.
Their millions of clenched ﬁsts are dipped in red.
A great murmur seeps through the crowd as I descend
the plank with Kavax and Holiday at my side. They grow
silent enough I can hear my boots on the metal plank and
then on the marble as I cross the Courtyard of Victories to
the Lion Steps. Niobe joins us along with the centurions of
Pegasus Legion, loyalist Skyhall and house naval captains,
and the remaining three widows of Arcos. The drums along
the courtyard boom from the labor of Red tribal drummers.
I ascend the steps quickly when I see my boy waiting at
the top of them. He is real. He is alive. Just ten meters
away. It is as if he has walked through a doorway and come
out not as a man, but ﬁnally the blueprint of the man he
will one day be. He’s a hand taller, his cheeks shrunken,
new scars on his face. But the real change is in his eyes.
The look of childish wonder is gone forever. Now they hold
the dullness that marks the passage into wisdom.
I wish I could wrap my boy in my arms and hold him until
he became part of me again. I would garland him with
kisses and apologies and promises. But we are at war, and I
am the Sovereign, and so the mother must wait her turn.
Kavax sees my distress, and breaks from the procession
to scoop my son up into his arms with a madman’s laugh.
He perches him on his shoulder and crows about the Boy
Who Killed a TorchShip.

—
I approach the ArchGovernor. My husband’s brother smiles
up at me. As charismatic as Darrow, but without even a hint
of his brother’s violent temperament, Kieran was always
demure in private and popular with the crowds. It looks
right to see him with the Sword of the Rising on his hip.
Behind him stand the Praetors of the Martian Legions, the
Imperators of the Ecliptic Guard, and the old Sons of Ares
commanders, all battle-hardened and clever, if a far cry
from those we lost on Mercury.
Kieran clears his throat.
“My Sovereign.” His voice ﬂoats over the crowd. “Luna
has fallen. The Senate is dissolved. The ArchGovernors hold
planetary imperium. According to the New Compact of the
Republic, in this time of peril, I exercise my power to grant
total imperium to my Sovereign.” He pulls the Sword of the
Rising from its sheath. It is the battered slingBlade of the
slave once known as L17L6363, his brother. The very tool
Darrow used in the mine of Lykos. Kieran passes it to me. It
is heavier than I expected a Red could wield. I turn to the
crowd beyond the obelisks and thrust the blade in the air.
“Hail libertas!” I bellow.
“Hail Reaper,” echoes the crowd.
—
After I have received my debrief, I ﬁnd Pax sitting with
Holiday in the garden where my brother killed my father
twelve years before. The blood has been washed from the
stone, but I still see it there. Whatever Pax has told Holiday
has her in tears. He presses something into her hand, and
she surprises me by kissing his forehead. She salutes as
she passes me. Scampering around the edge of the garden,

Sophocles salutes her departure with a bark and weaves
through my son’s legs in delight to see him again.
My old memories of the garden disappear as my boy
spots me. I feared he would greet me as I’ve seen him greet
his father. With that cold, scolding remove. But my fears
were unfounded. All pretense fails between us and we
crash together in an embrace. That hollow his absence has
made in me is ﬁlled. I feel as whole, as warm, as loved and
proud as I did the day I ﬁrst held him in my arms. How
many times did my willpower almost break? How many
times did I let myself imagine what sinister designs my
enemies had in store for him? He has survived. As I pull
back from him, I see his father’s anger in his eyes. His
mother’s patience. His own animated curiosity. But he has
changed.
—
The sounds of training razors clack through the seaside
courtyard at Hippolyte. Victra curses loudly, then barks,
“Again!”
Pax sees me hesitate to pass through the ﬁghter’s arch. I
am afraid to see my old friend. He takes my hand and
steers me clear of the training yard and together we
approach the burial place of Ulysses. Grass has begun to
grow over the small mound. The burial stone is wet with
the morning rain. This could have been my son. Pax knows
my mind and steps closer to me.
“You were right about Lyria of Lagalos,” he says. “She
did have virtue. Without her and Volga, it seems Victra
would have been lost.”
“I would like to see her again. Her brother was
evacuated by the—”
“He’s on the Reynard. I know. I’ve sent her away.”
I look at him without surprise. “Where to?”

“After Ragnar’s daughter, in a manner.”
I don’t understand. “She’s just a girl.”
He pauses. “Not anymore.”
We look back to the grave, guilty for speaking over it.
Sevro told me he was having a girl. It seems Victra was
waiting to surprise even him. A boy at last, a chance to
make up for his own father’s absence.
“Mother wanted to give him a sundeath,” Electra says.
Always ﬂeet of foot, she has grown quieter. I didn’t hear
her approach. Like Pax, she’s grown since I last saw her.
“But she knew Father would want to visit him when he gets
back.”
“Electra. Thank you for taking care of my son,” I say.
Her narrow eyes ﬂick to him. “That his story? No one
likes liars, Pax.” They ﬂick back to me. They were always
hard, but not like they are now. I can see that now all she
wants is to grow up so she can kill. It’s no longer cute.
“Whatever the Obsidian were feeding you worked. Look
how tall you are.”
She shrugs. “Maybe you’re just smaller.” She bows
slightly for her Sovereign, then stalks away. Pax watches
her go with a worried expression.
“She doesn’t like waiting,” Pax says.
I glance toward the training courtyard. “That makes two
of us. Wait here.”
I ﬁnd Victra in the center of the courtyard, facing down
three of her best knights. I silence my datapad before
entering. Even at her peak, three prime opponents would
have been one too many. Sweat lathers muscular arms
swollen with welts. She trains like a woman possessed.
Already the curves of motherhood burn away.
Practice razors whisper through the air as I walk in. A
clutch of sixty Peerless stiﬀen and bow at my arrival. I
whisper hello to Victra’s youngest daughter, Selene, and

the middle child, Calypso. When they hug me, I see their
hands are bandaged from training. Sons of Ares practice
martial arts along a bluﬀ on Victra’s estate.
Both parts of House Julii and Barca are preparing for
total war.
In the square, Victra eliminates one of the knights with a
neat thrust to his neck, and then receives a sideways slash
to her shin and another to her temple from the fastest of
the three. The head strike is a killing blow. Blood trickles
down Victra’s face. She stumbles, growls, returns to the
center of the circle and shouts for them to go again. The
knights stop and bow when they see me. Victra casts me an
annoyed glance and stalks over to a towel to wipe the blood
oﬀ her face. I join her there.
“Does Mars ride for Luna, my Sovereign?” she asks.
“You know we can’t yet.”
“Then what do you want?”
“Just to speak with—”
“And of what would we speak? Of how they nailed my son
to a tree? Of how Ascomanni came like fucking monsters
out of the ether? Of how you could have saved Darrow but
didn’t?”
“Victra…”
“Or maybe of how my husband is being tortured by that
Abomination while you run back home to lick your
wounds?” She glares down at me. “You might think I
obeyed your orders, that I…molder here out of ﬁdelity to
your leadership. No. I am here because without
reinforcements my ﬂeet would be massacred by the Vox,
much less if we ran afoul the Core.” She sticks a ﬁnger in
my chest. “You abandoned my husband. Our enemies move
uncontested. So unless Mars is riding for Luna right now,
fuck oﬀ.”
She turns back to her practice.

The knights look away as I strip oﬀ my jacket and
unbutton my tunic to my compression bra. “Victra.” She
turns. Her eyes trace the divots Lilath’s hatchet left on my
stomach and neck and the several hundred punctures the
mob gave me on my ﬂanks and arms, and a tension releases
from her shoulders. Her love and hate are made of the
same passion. “I tried,” I whisper. “Truly.” Her eyes search
each one of the scars. I now have more than she does. Her
heavy hand reaches to clutch my shoulder, and then the
bigger woman pulls our foreheads together.
“If we cannot engineer salvation for our men, then
vengeance will suﬀice,” Victra says.
I nod against her.
My husband would have it no other way. No matter what
they say, Darrow is not dead. He endured for me, and I did
not arrive. I will endure now until he does. Victra will have
her wrath till her dying breath. I will have my hope. I will
make our family whole again.
There’s a stirring in the courtyard from the knights. A
defense pulseShield warps the air of Hippolyte, and Pax
rushes into the courtyard with his datapad in hand. By the
look on his face, I know what it is.
“Earth has fallen,” I whisper.
“Already?” Victra snarls.
“To whom?” I ask. “Rim or—”
“Both,” he whispers distantly. “Cassius was right. Lune
has bridged the divide.”

***Lysander“Are you certain you want me to leave you alone out

here?” Rhone’s eyes search the warped horizon of the
Ladon. Pytha stands behind him before my personal
shuttle. “Until the wedding, Ajax will look for any
opportunity…”
“Ajax is on Earth. It must be done.”
“But, dominus…” He looks again at the feast. In the
middle of the desert, upon a great dune, two broad couches
of purple silk and raw nebulawood lie on either side of a
long table weighed down by a feast to feed twenty. “Are you
certain this is safe?”
“I don’t believe my guest would respect safe.”
“Are you certain he will come?”
I look out at the desert. “The better question is if he is
even real.”
“What do you mean?”

“Never you mind. Come back for me in two hours,” I say.
“If I’m in more than one piece, collect my remains and ﬁre
them into the sun.” I hand him a datadrop. “My will.
Glirastes has a copy too.”
Glirastes, who took the day to scout locations for a new
library in Pan, would be furious if he knew that I was out
here in the desert instead of overseeing the rebuilding of
Tyche, but despite what he thinks, he needn’t know all my
aﬀairs.
After a hesitation, Rhone salutes and enters the shuttle.
Pytha remains behind. “Do you know what you are doing?”
she asks. “He is not a sane man.”
“Are you afraid of him, Pytha?”
“Yes.”
“So is everyone.” She understands as she remembers her
advice in the ﬁtting bay of the Annihilo. But she does not
like it.
Soon the shuttle is out of sight. I sit on one of the
couches and sip chilled wine. With Kalindora’s revelations,
my inner world is in shambles. But the strings of oaths,
ﬁdelity, and history that conspired to strangle me are cut. I
know the rules now, Grandmother.
There are none.
At last, I feel free.
Here in the aftermath of the Battle of Mercury, I sense a
great horizon of opportunity. The Free Legions are broken.
Darrow is in ﬂight. Luna is run by a madman. Mars
trampled by Obsidians. Earth fallen to the Rim and the
Society.
That sense of insigniﬁcance and guilt I permitted Cassius
to instill within me has not disappeared, but remains in the
back of my mind as a reminder of the fate one can accept if
he lets the mercy of others deﬁne him. Darrow’s mercy all
those years ago, Cassius’s mercy in serving as my

protector, Kalindora’s last testament—all of it rooted in
some vain attempt to rekindle honor they long ago
sacriﬁced for one reason or another.
The same honor Lorn preached, after painting a legend
in blood. The same selﬁsh honor Romulus preserved before
abandoning his people at their most dire hour. The same
honor that led to my engagement with Atalantia, and let me
delude myself into thinking that honor was about personal
sacriﬁce.
My grandmother was the most cunning person I ever
met, but still she was wrong. She thought there was no
place for honor in the world. I cannot agree completely. It
was her cruelty that chipped away at the foundation of her
power and poisoned all who served her.
It is Atalantia’s cruelty which makes me prey to people
like her. Is it honorable to kill her for my mother?
Honorable to thrust us into civil war? Honorable to fulﬁll
my pledge to submit to her every whim? Honorable to be
trapped between her legs night after night so that Gold
might have unity?
I think not.
I think, as with all things, honor is best appreciated in
moderation. As is cruelty.
After all, there is no crime with a court.
The whine of gravBoots disturbs my silence. My guest
arrives. He is no ﬁgment of my imagination. He is real, and
dreadful. His Martian armor radiates heat in the sun until
he steps into the cool provided by the pulseBubble I have
prepared. He looks over the table from beneath the horns
of his helm.
“A mirage of no ﬁner quality has ever graced this wasted
tomb to ambition and martial men,” he declares through
his helmet. “Libations of Elysian red, Terran Bordeaux,
Mercurian soletto. With gustatio of raw oysters, wine-

steamed sow’s udders, candied pecans, olives, azeroles,
and medlars and jucellum. A mensae primae of walnut-andherb-stuﬀed thrush and pachelbel, garlic venison, honeydrizzled wild boar stuﬀed with dried ﬁgs, garum sauce,
and, do mine eyes deceive me?”
His giant helmet inspects the centerpiece.
“A hare decorated with the wings of a peacock—no, ’tis
but a noble pegasus! And, not to be forgotten, a mensae
secundae of Lunese iced frizeé, tactun, chocolate pecans,
and white pudding.”
He looks up at me. That metal helmet impassive and
dreadful.
“Now, this is a cena! A feast ﬁt for a conqueror, a
gourmand, a student of Apicius himself, and set before such
grandeur.” He waves at the desert. “Yes, yes! I at last am
paid the respect I am due.”
“If I have learned anything, it is that one does not simply
summon the Minotaur,” I reply. “If you would please do me
the honor of joining me, I believe we have common
interests to discuss.”
He doﬀs his helmet and reclines on the couch. His face is
that of an evil angel. Masculine, suspicious, amused, and
tan from what I assume he considers his vacation in the
desert. He peers under the table with mocking eyes.
“Gelding or stallion, my goodman?”
“Were you not there when I was tortured?” I ask.
“I was mocking your union with the Fury, not your time
with the Gorgons,” he says. “How well I know the unlimited
depths of her voracious appetites. Though I hear Ajax has
ﬁlled the holes my absence has left. Now you seek to do the
same.” He grins. “But, yes, I was outside the cave, I waited,
listening via my sophisticated drone hardware to the
ministrations of the Fear Knight. I confess, I considered
striking when you purloined him for your own purposes.

Such opportunity seldom presents itself with that most
dangerous game. But the show…oh, the show was far too
interesting to interrupt. The ﬂight across the desert will be
held forever in amber in the hollows of my mind.” He leans
forward, very sincere. “I do apologize for claiming you
lacked theatricality. It is always a pleasure to be wrong.”
He strokes his purple chest plate. The grapevines of his
home in Thessalonica stretch to a horizon gilded with silver
sunlight. “Alas, my armor died from that infernal
electromagnetic pulse. I have yet to divine why its shielding
failed to that device. I have many questions for Glirastes.
Many questions to which I must have answers.”
“They can wait. I confess, I am surprised to ﬁnd that you
did not go witness the attack on Earth. Most of your quarry
were in play.”
“My path to my quarry runs through this moment,” he
says. “And after the Ash Rain?” He looks oﬀended. “After a
cup of ’21 Thessalonican Chianti, one does not rinse one’s
mouth with sangria. I saw thirty million men in mortal
conﬂict. Oh, my need for violent theater is quite sated. In
any matter, it was a pathetic aﬀair. The Vox ﬂeet gazed
lazily from their perch above Luna as Atalantia feigned a
retreat and led Earth’s ﬂeet straight into a Rim attack
group. The only thing of interest would have been to see
the son of Romulus lead his commandos to the surface to
lower the shield generators. What a specimen is he.
Perhaps we have a new lead on stage.”
“Well, I hope you still have room for theater of a diﬀerent
sort,” I say.
A great mechanical groan tears the sky, frightening the
dishes and the sand of the dune into frantic palpitations.
The sound rushes toward us in a ﬂood of decibels till it
seems that the torrent of it will swallow the dune. And then
it is overhead and Apollonius grins. A great mass blocks the
sky. Slowly, a thin wedge of blue elongates in the darkness

as two vast legs of stone pass through the midday heat.
They are but the lowermost extremities of the ancient mass
born aloft by six heavy-cargo haulers. The haulers creep
across the sky, and soon begin to lower their charge.
The statue is immense. Its face, riven by the ravages of
desert storms and chipped by the target practice of Rising
riﬂemen, sneers at us as if to say, You think yourself
worthy?
The stone lips of my ﬁrst Ancestor, Silenius au Lune, curl
in contempt as he resumes his rightful place under the sun.
The haulers release the towing bonds. The Sovereign
sways. His stone feet sink into the sand. Dust from his
recent grave shudders from his shoulders, nose, and the
creases of his robe to form a billowing cloak. When the dust
clears, he is still and solemn amongst his mighty fellows.
Two-score Sovereigns stand in the desert to form a circle
ten kilometers in circumference.
It is theater ﬁt for the Minotaur. He claps his hands like a
delighted, monstrous child.
“In each individual, one might ﬁnd vanity, cruelty, pride,
all or any of the excesses and deﬁciencies of the Homo
aureate,” I say. “But together they stand for something
more than their individual parts. Each was a custodian for
his or her time, forming a chain of order that guided the
human spirit from the dark ages of war through seven
hundred years of expansion and growth. They erred in the
end. Each small corruption spawning one more evolved and
potent, until the natural evolution of that corruption
induced decay and torpor, and the death of all empires:
aristocracy. In that decay, how could they not expect a new
predator to rise?”
“Darrow.” Apollonius smiles. “My ultimate prey.”
“Indeed. I will not be like them. In their shadow, I will
create something greater, something stronger, something
fairer. But it seems nothing fair is made by fairness.”

“I care nothing for fairness, nor any of your pretentiousminded virtues,” he declares with a wave of an armored
hand. “They are for simpletons. No morality constrains my
limitless mind, save my word. You know what I want, little
paramour.”
“Atalantia, Ajax, Atlas. And then Darrow.”
“And the Mind’s Eye,” he says with hunger.
“I can give you that, and the rest, but I need something
in return.”
He leans his huge mass back. “Dare I ask? What must I
sacriﬁce upon the altar for my heart’s delight?”
“Nothing.” His eyes narrow. “You have been mistreated,
misunderstood, and betrayed. You have watched me suﬀer
the same. We are alike, Apollonius. It seems a pity that we
should be so alone.” I lean back and sip my wine. “May I
ask, do you care at all for rule?”
“It bores me, as does this conversation.”
“I know how you will die, Apollonius.”
“Ooo, much better. How?”
“You will die the apex predator of this world, having
stained it with your legend and the blood of your foes. So
that when, in old age, you sit beneath the sycamores of
Thessalonica to die, you know you venture into the Void not
burdened by your conquests, not fettered with
responsibility of rule, but light as the ether that binds the
heavens as you drink your Thessalonican red and reminisce
of the enemies you cut to their knees.”
He is enchanted. “And with whom will I reminisce?”
“The ally who asks for nothing but your blade and
cunning mind, who takes the burden of rule from your
shoulders and exempts you from fealty, from all oaths, save
the one where you gave your word to stand beside him
against the worlds.”

I extend a hand. With a smile, he seizes it in his immense
gauntlet. His eyes blaze with excitement.
“To the trembling of the worlds,” he whispers.
Together, we gaze at the graveyard of tyrants. In the days
before the Rising, the people of Mercury would come to
this place and follow the statue’s extended arms, which
pointed at midnight to Luna to remind them where power
truly resided.
When I found the statues, they lay fallow in the dirt,
covered with war machines and blood. Their arms pointing
in all directions. Now, no longer a bickering mass in a
shared grave, they stand together again. They point
together toward a small patch of the sky where at noon a
distant sphere, appearing no larger than a small grain of
sand, circles the sun. They point to remind my guest and all
of Mercury our task is yet unﬁnished.
They point toward Mars.